In no time the organization of Lala Hardayal became famous as the Gadar Party . 
the passengers objected to it . 
Sardar Gurdeet Singh with his 30 companions slipped into the lanes of Calcutta and was never heard of again . 
The other areas are Rangat and Great Nicobar . 
Most of the activities of the Tamilians are centred around Port Blair , where they have a beautiful community hall where functions are held . 
They also bring out a number of Tamil weekly newspapers . 
Tamil films are also shown in the local cinema halls . 
There are quite a large number of Malayalees living here . 
The vegetation and climate of these islands are very much similar to those of Kerala . 
They are spread out throughout the islands . 
In South Andaman some families were settled at Mai Tilak which is in close proximity to the Jarawa reserve . 
The Cellular Jail has been called the university of the Independence struggle . 
is found in the west coast of Great Nicobar called the Magapod Island . 
A unique feature of this bird is that it changes its color and just mingles with the background of the land . 
The pied imperial pigeon is creamy white with jet black flying feathers at the tip of his tail . 
The colonial system of administration was maintained . 
The Chief Commissioner continued to enjoy the supreme powers in respect of the islands . 
In fact , most of the members were nominated and were generally ' yes ' men of the Chief Commissioner . 
The Congress party has always remained the dominant party in these islands . 
Almost all the national parties and some of the regional parties have their branches in these islands . 
The political history of the Nicobar group of islands reveals the true character of the European countries during the 18th and 19th centuries . 
The invention of gun powder had equipped them with a lethal weapon which the East could not match . 
The West started devouring country after country in the East , bartering them among themselves as commodities or chattels . 
First they sent the missionaries and then came the doctor , followed by an invasion by the soldiers . 
In some cases the missionaries themselves were given all the functions . 
This pattern is quite evident in the political history of the Nicobar Islands . 
The Nicobar group of islands is mentioned in the writings of old travellers . 
Plotemy calls them ' Nagadip ' , a Hindu name for naked island . 
In the Tanjore inscription of 1050 A D these islands are mentioned 
Marco Polo mentioned them as ' Necaveram ' . 
Friar Odoric who visited these islands in 1322 also mentions them as ' Nicoveram ' . 
In the 15th and 16th centuries the Portuguese referred to them as ' Nacubar ' and ' Nicobar ' . 
But he returned to Pondicherry in 1742 where he died . 
At the same time attention of the Danish East India Company also turned towards Car Nicobar . 
A plan for its colonisation was made and an expedition started from Tranquebar in 1755 . 
All members of the Danish East India Company died of fever . 
The missionaries had no power with them to exercise the right of sovereignty over Nicobar . 
The guns left by the Danish East India Company in Nancowry were gradually stolen away by the Malays . 
Even during the stay of the missionaries at Car Nicobar a Dutch adventurist named William Bolt hoisted the Austrian flag on Nicobar . 
With permission from Empress Maria Theresa , Bolt started for these islands but his ship went off course and was wrecked . 
Nancowry , Car Nicobar , Tringuest and Katchal in April 1778 . 
Bolt 's action was an adventure similar to those undertaken by many Europeans in those days . 
Bolt 's action seems to have offended the Danes . 
In order to maintain Danish rights over these islands it was resolved to establish a new settlement . 
The crown took over the rights and administration of the Nicobar Islands from the East India Company in 1783 . 
However , no settlement could be established by the Danes in the Nicobar Islands in accordance with the decision of the Danish government . 
From 1793 to 1807 the Danes kept a small guard in the Nicobar Islands . 
In 1807 the English , on account of the Napoleanic wars , announced the possession of these islands in the name of Great Britain . 
However , their nominal possession ended in 1814 when , at the conclusion of the war , these islands were returned to the Danes . 
In the meantime , the French also tried to occupy these islands but failed . 
Finally in 1845 the Danes made the last attempt to occupy these islands . 
Buse was sent by the government and he appointed two persons for hoisting their flag . 
In 1848 the Danish Government renounced the claims of strengthening the base and removed the remains of the settlement in the Nicobars . 
From 1848 to 1869 the islands were left to themselves . 
The infighting among the Europeans over these islands made the Nicobarese very angry . 
Nicobarese became notorious throughout the ocean as being little better than pirates . 
Several incidents of attacks on the crew of ships anchoring off Nicobars were reported during this period . 
In 1843 a small craft coming from Bengal was cut off at the same spot and the entire crew of 25 was killed . 
In 1852 British vessels were the victim of piracy on the coast of Nicobar Islands in which entire crew was killed . 
In 1867 , a rig named ' Fatteh Islam ' was attacked at the island of Trinket and 21 persons were killed . 
The Captains , who wielded the real authority , agreed to hoist the British flag whenever foreign ships visited the harbor . 
Thus the islands were loosely administered by undertaking a few excursions after a couple of months . 
After Bishop Richardson returned to the scene after receiving education at Rangoon , things started looking up . 
A post of Assistant Commissioner at Car Nicobar was created . 
The last incumbent of the British regime before Japanese occupation was Scot . 
When questioned , the people showed their complete ignorance about the British having left and India having become independent . 
Yet the life style of the people continues to remain very much the same . 
In what directions the events will move only the future can tell . 
Presently the tribals of the Nicobar group of islands are still far from politics . 
It is time we now looked back and delved into the affairs and lives of the primitive tribes of the islands . 
They continue to enjoy a free , independent and nomadic life . 
Their main source of living is sea food , fish , wild pig , tuber crops and honey . 
They roam about the jungles quite naked , in search of food and are excellent swimmers . 
Some of the contractors officially requisition the services of the Bush police for their protection . 
It is believed that quite a number of Jarawas are killed by the Bush police in the process . 
Roughly their number is estimated at between 100 and 200 . 
A group of four Bengali poachers entered their area for collection of seashells etc . 
In the early hours they were attacked by a group of Jarawas , who killed three of them . 
He escaped their wrath and swam across to another island where 
I accepted the challenge and volunteered to lead the expedition into Jarawa territory . 
What were the gifts to be given to them in case they show friendly feeling ? 
What route is to be taken ? 
We sailed from Port Blair in the night in the Milali boat specially designed for the service of the primitive tribals . 
We then left the open sea in the East Coast and entered a small channel joining it to the West Coast . 
Milali was cruising majestically along the West Coast towards Flat Island , and we were now in the Jarawa area . 
We put up one red flag on the mast of Milali , and also tied red pieces of cloth around our heads . 
Every one of us was cautious and was looking attentively towards the coast . 
To our great surprise they indeed were the Jarawas . 
There was a feeling of joy and fear among those on board . 
Would they run away or attack or welcome us ? 
\* As Milali went nearer we saw the Jarawas running in the direction of Milali towards their huts . 
Apparently they came to the conclusion that we meant no harm to them . 
They seemed to be extremely happy and were making friendly gestures . 
On reaching Milali they were greatly excited and started running , jumping and shouting all over the vessel . 
One of the Jarawas started climbing up the mast , some started taking out steel fixtures . 
They were very fond of steel items , as they needed them for their bows and arrows . 
We had locked the gifts of coconut , bananas etc , in a room separated by a wire gauge . 
The social scientists regard this as a pessimistic approach and plead for their gradual assimilation into our present society . 
After a few hours of sailing Milali entered the open sea in the Eastern Coast , and headed for Port Blair . 
The waves were sky high and small Milali was tossing around like a shuttlecock . 
The waves were crashing with such speed that the boat was making great sound and water was entering into the cabin . 
It was quite difficult either to lie or sit or stand . 
He writes that the behavior of the Onges was quite friendly and womenfolk came to the ship without fear or hesitation . 
They were shown Calcutta City . 
They were greatly excited to see the city , people and transport . 
Equally surprised were they to see the shops , circus , museum etc . 
The people of Calcutta were also thrilled to see these tribals . 
Huge crowds came to see them . 
The shopkeepers showed them their wares with great enthusiasm . 
The visit was intended to stimulate their thinking for material advancement . 
For many years unsuccessful attempts have been made to bring them into the mainstream of national life . 
The obvious result therefore is that the birth rate comes down . 
As pointed out earlier , in this hot climate the Onges do not like to put on clothes . 
However , most of the money is lost in red tapism and the last man gets very little . 
Near the South Andaman 's western coast there is an island called North Sentinel Island . 
However , it is all a wild conjecture . 
It is a matter of satisfaction that , during the recent years , some action has been taken in this direction . 
They have now been shifted to Strait Island , which is about 20 km away from Port Blair . 
This news had a lightening effect in the entire jail and all the freedom fighters felt very proud and happy . 
A major breakthrough has been achieved by some groups of Shompens who have come out from their shell of shyness and hesitation . 
An interesting feature is the tremendous interest evinced by tourists from all over the world . 
The Forest Department has also a sale depot at this place where the visitors can get souvenirs made of rare species of timber . 
The Andaman Administration arranges conducted tours , including a harbor cruise , for the tourists . 
The island had to be abandoned as it was hit by an earthquake and was declared unsafe . 
It is 85 nautical miles from Port Blair and there is a direct as well as via Rangat ferry service . 
One can disembark at Rangat and from there take a bus to Mayabunder . 
The road from Rangat to Mayabunder passes through various settlements , e . 
Mayabunder has a beautiful PWD Inspection Bungalow just on the beach . 
There is direct sailing for Diglipur which is the headquarters of North Andaman . 
Little Andaman Little Andaman is one of the big islands south of Port Blair at a distance of 66 nautical miles . 
The two Cinque Islands are separated only by a sand bar which gets submerged during the high tide . 
Little further south there are two pairs of islands called Brother and Sister Islands . 
The Onges have now settled at Dengong Creek a few kilometres away from Hut Bay towards the north . 
The settlement can be visited for academic reasons with permission from the local administration . 
However , one can always find a couple of Onges at Hut Bay itself where they frequently go for purchases . 
The people in general are quite friendly and hospitable . 
The Nicobarese play all types of indoor and outdoor games . 
The boys of the Nicobar Higher Secondary School have more than once won the football final of the All India Subroto Cup . 
The Nicobarese are very fond of cultural programs and are very talented . 
They are quick to pick up new ideas . 
Chaura is flat almost like a football field . 
The rubber trees have come up with excellent growth and the yield will be a great asset to the country 's economy . 
Great Nicobar Campbell Bay , the headquarters of Great Nicobar Island , is 294 nautical miles from Port Blair . 
This is the biggest island in the Nicobar group with high hills and big rivers like Alexandria and Galatea . 
A meeting with the Shampens can also be arranged . 
On the western coast there is a small island of Magapod , where the rare bird Magapod is found . 
There were about 381freedom fighters sent to Cellular Jail . 
The freedomfighters were used in place of bullocks for pulling themachine of the coconut oil extractor . 
Water was sprinkled on their face and as soon asthey regained consciousness they were put back on thesame strenuous job . 
They were punished if it fell short even by one drop . 
The group then proceeded towards Phoenix Bay and took charge of the Marine Dockyard , with its workshop and sea crafts . 
The objective of ' the Andaman Miniseibu ' as reported in the Japanese history of their administration in the Andamans was . 
The British had left an incomplete project for making fields into a makeshift airstrip . 
The Japanese decided to complete this project as it was to their advantage . 
There are many varieties of snakes , most of which are not dangerous . 
The green lizard is another unique feature of these islands which is rarely found in any other part of the world . 
There are fifteen varieties of lizards found in these islands 
Japan stormed South East Asia with lightening speed . 
whom they wanted to utilise without contravening the provisions of the Geneva Convention . 
A more serious incident took place in Bombay , where the Sikh Squadron of Central India Horse refused to go outside the country . 
There was also trouble in North Africa . 
Captain Mohan Singh was highly dissatisfied with the attitude of the British officers who often abused the Indian soldiers . 
He was taken to Tokyo . 
Bose was very keen to meet Prime Minister Tojo but the latter was reluctant to do so . 
He was quite discourteous to him and gave him time for a meeting as late as 10 June 1943 . 
But in the very first meeting Bose caste such a spell on this little dangerous man that it had an electrifying effect . 
Tojo was so impressed by the analysis of events given by Bose that he sought another meeting with him to consider the proposal . 
Subhas Chandra Bose reached Singapore on 2 July 1943 . 
For over two weeks there were celebrations in the city which had a festive air . 
Bose was touched by this spontaneous overflow of love and affection . 
Had Japan handed over these islands to Netaji and diverted its forces on the Burma front , the story perhaps would have been different . 
Japan had recently appeared on the scene of advanced nations and had no past experience of colonial administration . 
In this respect they were far behind the British who had specialised this art . 
It was for this reason that the Japanese did not make it their headquarters . 
The next day Netaji visited the Cellular Jail . 
Netaji came from Ross Island to Maidan in a ceremonious procession of a fleet of vehicles flanked by Japanese officers . 
On arrival Netaji went up the rostrum and unfurled the tricolor flag . 
He had to live on the human flesh of the dead bodies which floated to the shore . 
After a week another operation called ' round up ' took place . 
This time the scene was a hut in Garacharama village . 
This was the darkest period of the Japanese occupation in these islands . 
These events took place just a fortnight before this date and the second just two days before the date of surrender . 
A new chapter of development opened and the islands started to join the mainstream of national life . 
There is one Member of Parliament elected from the entire territory . 
, Besides the above , the offices of Shipping Corporation of India and Indian Airlines are also functioning there . 
These islands have great strategic importance . 
This is found near the coast of Nancowry and other nearby islands . 
Thai ambassador visited Port Blair to make arrangements for the repatriation of the Thais . 
some for genuine reasons of safety and few under the pretext of shelter want to indulge in undesirable activities . 
The ministerial staff associations are also quite vociferous about their demands and cause frequent stirs . 
People by and large are peaceful , but are emotional and get worked up on petty issues . 
During the following five years he is still a laboring convict but the severity of his life is eased down a little . 
The convict is now in a sense free . 
He has no civil rights under the ordinary law , 
When the Prime Minister asked about the price , the Chief Captain smiled and asked Nehru to give him the coat he was wearing . 
Nehru at once fulfilled his wish and gave him his coat . 
This indicates the simple and jovial nature of these tribals , who do not like intricate laws and believe in rough and ready justice . 
The dent of the administration under these circumstances is bound to remain superficial . 
The andaman Islands did not get much attention during the First Five Year Plan period . 
In the Little Andaman also , besides paddy , people have successfully grown pulses , sugarcane and oilseeds . 
In the southern group of islands , a special type of papaya is found which is very tasty and is red from the inside . 
The people of the Nicobar group of islands are wholly dependent upon coconut . 
The disease free coconut of these islands is a unique feature in the world . 
The response of the villagers to this scheme has been very good . 
Under the Feed and Fodder program , the villagers are now coming forward for growing fodder . 
Though much advanced and modern in many respects , they are not interested either in milk or milch animals . 
It is in the field of poultry development that the islands have made tremendous progress . 
The Nicobarese have also not lagged behind in this enterprise . 
The people of Port Blair have specialised in the scientific technique of poultry development through deep litre system . 
Finally , legal opinion clarified that selling farm produce does not come under the definition of trade . 
There is a poultry farm at Dollygunj which meets most of the demand of eggs for Port Blair . 
The andaman group of islands have a much bigger coastline than any other State of India . 
According to international law , the legal jurisdiction of the country extends upto 200 miles of territorial water . 
these intruders even did not hesitate to fire in their bid to escape . 
About 2 lakh cubic metres of timber is supplied to the railways and ordnance factories in the mainland . 
However , during Japanese occupation , people with English education were looked upon with suspicion . 
The Japanese had started their own school in which the medium of instruction was Japanese . 
In the initial period , the Education Department continued to be guided by the Rangoon Education Department for some years . 
During the Japanese occupation , the road construction program received some attention . 
Considering the brief spell of their stay in this territory , with war clouds hovering around , the Japanese did a good job . 
It was only after Independence that a planned development of road network was spread all over the andaman Islands . 
One of the reasons for this was that these islands had been chosen for the rehabilitation of people under different schemes . 
Many new islands came under habitation for the first time and needed necessary infrastructure for development . 
One of the major road projects taken up was the ' Andaman Grand Trunk Road ' . 
Initially work of construction of the road work went on smoothly with much fanfare but suddenly it received a setback . 
In the whole of Bengal there was a strong wave for armed revolution . 
Birendra Ghosh was the main organiser of this terrorist movement . 
In order to control the masses the British Government arrested Lala Lajpat Rai and Sardar Ajit Singh who had to undergo imprisonment in Mandaley . 
Hardinge had a miraculous escape but his bodyguards were killed . 
Ras Behari Bose disappeared and later played a major role in carrying out the freedom movement for India in South East Asia . 
The freedom movement was gaining momentum in Maharashtra under the inspiring leadership of Lokmanya Tilak . 
Some of the locals have been able to take to shell craft and are engaged in making beautiful pieces of art . 
Driftwood being available in plenty . 
There are , however , plans to have an electric drying plant and utilise the husk of the coconut . 
The administration has a publicity department which hands out all the necessary information about its activities to the public and other media . 
Earlier , the islands did not have any newspaper . 
The saying that adversaries makes strange bed fellows applies appropriately in the case of the Andamans . 
One local born official was elected president of this association . 
Welcoming the manufacture of the bomb Tilak wrote in Kesari , . 
Tilak was prosecuted and sentenced to Mandaley Jail . 
In 1908 Damodar Savarkar , elder brother of Vir Vinayak Savarkar , published some patriotic poems under the heading Laghu Avinav Bharat Mela . 
He was also incarcerated in the Cellular Jail . 
In spite of their being in the same jail the two brothers could not see each other for nine long months . 
the increasing poverty , which was due to Government 's policy of economic exploitation . 
many of them wanted to try their luck by going abroad . 
The sizeable population of Hindus has set up a number of temples where all religious functions are held with great devotion . 
The Radha Govind temple in Port Blair attracts large crowds . 
At Junglighat there are temples of shiva and of Durga . 
They make beautiful idols of Durga and even bring good artists from outside . 
All other religious festivals of the Tamilians , Andhraites , Malayalees and Maharashtrians etc . 
At Port Blair there is a beautiful gurudwara . 
There is another gurudwara in Great Nicobar at Campbell Bay . 
not much is known about them . 
In the beginning of the 18th century , the French missionaries of Pondicherry were interested in these islands . 
Father Petre and Father Bonnet landed in Nicobar in the year 1711 , but both of them died due to fever and bad climate . 
In 1741 , Father Charles de Montalembat came but due to adverse climate returned to the mainland in 1742 and died soon after . 
The loss of eleven missionaries within such a short period had a depressing effect on the Moravian mission . 
In spite of their sufferings , they could not convert a single tribal to Christianity . 
In 1831 , another Danish missionary , Rosen , reached Car Nicobar but due to serious illness he had to leave in 1834 . 
The British at once agreed and also made him their agent . 
Solomon did a unique job in cultivating the friendship of the Nicobarese . 
a leadership which changed the course of history in these islands . 
Among his students was a young and intelligent bright boy who was sent to Rangoon for education and was christened as Richardson . 
He was a true disciple of Solomon and in some respects more dynamic . 
It was more a change of form than of spirit . 
They still continue with their traditional worship of the dead and other forms of rituals to ward off evil spirits . 
They have ancient forms of community worship by sacrificing pigs and smearing its blood over the body . 
In South Andaman near Wandoor , similar unauthorised colonies have come up . 
Even after years of stay in these islands they have nostalgic feelings for their homeland . 
One has just to throw the seeds on the soft land and up comes the rich crop of paddy . 
Wherever there is a village there is either a fish pond or a river nearby where fish are found in abundance . 
Many Bengali poets have sung songs in praise of this land . 
The great poet Rabindranath Tagore has rightly called this beautiful land ' Sonar Bangla ' or Golden Bengal . 
During Durga Puja , the celebrations in the villages create an atmosphere of mini Bengal . 
In Port Blair there is a beautiful Atul Samiti Club which is the nerve center of various activities . 
One special feature of the annual cultural festival is the staging of a popular Hindi play . 
There is no difficulty in getting rice and fish which are available in plenty . 
People of the island have adopted Hindi as a means of communication . 
There is also an organization named Hindi Sahitya Sammelan for the encouragement of the Hindi language . 
Most of the historians and anthropologists have not been able to determine their origin . 
It is an ancient race inhabiting these islands and they belong to the Mongoloid stock . 
The Nicobarese have adjusted very well to these islands . 
The Nicobarese always had a tough time with the Malay pirates who frequented the shores . 
They learned from , these pirates to loot the ships and kill the crew in joint operations . 
It is the general belief that the children suffering from acute malnutrition diseases get cured by smearing pig 's blood over their bellies . 
We have seen the transfusion of human blood in the hospitals but not this direct application . 
Chaura village is held in high esteem by all the Nicobarese . 
The couple moves in the ' birth huts ' some days or even weeks before the delivery . 
As he went towards his home , he told the nymph to wait for him . 
The Nicobarese live in beautiful huts which have unique architecture . 
The entire room has a pleasant breeze giving a touch of air conditioning . 
In the early times the Nicobarese used to remain naked but , as time passed , 
wear gaudy clothes of the latest designs . 
Tears rolled down their eyes , when they were greeted with cheers and showers of rose petals . 
I was overwhelmed with an emotion too deep to express . 
The Andaman Islands have played a very important role in the history of the freedom movement . 
Among them were the well known Baba Sohan Singh , Baba Prithavi Singh and Bhai Parmanand etc . 
The members of the Gadar Party and other Indians appealed to the Indian soldiers to join the revolutionaries for the liberation of the motherland . 
On 1 January 1915 the Fifth Indian Regiment raised the banner of revolt . 
If they had proper leadership , the entire city of Singapore would have been under their command . 
, were incarcerated in the Cellular Jain in 1916 . 
The entire population is now fully dependent on the administration for their daily needs . 
They do not wear any clothes as such . 
Obviously , the administration could not accede to such demands . 
The Onges mostly are now living in a tribal settlement colony at Degong Creek . 
Most of them are very weak and some of them suffer from diseases like tuberculosis . 
Now the administration has opened a dispensary and individual health cards are being maintained . 
They took some interest in this enterprise and also started their own plantation in their settlement but the normal enthusiasm is still lacking . 
If it was really so , it would have been a great discovery for this country but subsequent research did not establish this . 
The author was officially closely associated with the welfare of this tribe and studied their life in great depth . 
On the establishment of the Penal Settlement it was this tribe which came into direct conflict with the British administration . 
Living in the open these children of nature , the Andamanese were enjoying a free , independent and healthy life free from diseases . 
However , this contact with the outside world brought epidemics like cholera , smallpox , measles and contagious diseases like tuberculosis , VD etc . 
They were ignorant about these diseases and their bodies had no immunity against any of these diseases . 
They rub some leaves on their bodies which make them immune from the bites of bees . 
The Aberdeen Bazar of Port Blair is full of all types of goods . 
There is yet another beautiful tourist rest house named after the rare bird available in these islands and is called Magapod Nest . 
A 46 bed youth hostel , which provides cheaper accommodation , has been recently constructed . 
The tourists are advised to see the documentary film Man in Search of Man 
The farm has also the local variety and wild variety of flowers . 
The tropical sun gives them deep exotic colors which is a rare phenomenon . 
Rangat is the tehsil headquarter and fast developing into a town . 
There is a hospital and other educational institutions . 
Plenty of oranges are also grown in this area . 
Mayabunder is also situated in the Middle Andaman and is quite close to Rangat . 
It has a fine climate and vegetables are grown in abundance . 
The land is very fertile and crop is very good . 
It can be called the granary of the Andamans . 
The Saddle Peak at a height of 762 metres dominates the area . 
The British Government , however , did not keep its promise and freedom fighters continued to be sent to Andamans . 
Sita Ram Raju was shot dead . 
About the same timethere was another rebellion by the Mopalas of Kerala . 
This was just a virgin island till a few years back . 
The people are most enterprising and the soil is fertile which enables them to grow a wide variety of cereals . 
The island of Car Nicobar has been over populated . 
The Nicobari settlement is only about five kilometres from Hut Bay and visitors can have a look at their life style . 
If this happens during night , it causes great loss as the vessels drift into the open sea . 
In similar circumstances a few years back a mechanical boat belonging to the Fisheries Department drifted away . 
The Car Nicobar is the most densely populated island . 
It is quite flat and has an area of 129 sq . 
The visitors can also visit the villages and see the Nicobarese men and women coming with loads of coconuts . 
Unfortunately , there is no natural source of drinking water on this island . 
The administration has made some plans for collecting rain water for longer duration . 
The Chaura people are excellent carpenters and make very good canoes . 
Most of the woodwork in the houses of the Nicobarese is done by them . 
According to the Nicobarese custom , making of earthen pots is the exclusive privilege of the Chaura people . 
for this purpose the services of Tamil families repatriated from Sri Lanka were utilised . 
A drive through these settlements gives an idea of the great plantations and crops raised by these industrious people . 
under rough weather transhipment to boats from the ships becomes quite difficult and sometimes dangerous also . 
The river Galathia flows near this place , among dense green foliage . 
Both these names are after the Greek gods and the place realy seems to represent the mysterious spirit of mythology . 
There is a lighthouse at this point which guides the ships voyaging from Colombo to Singapore . 
this can easily be adjusted within the sailing time of the ship . 
There is a proposal to establish a botanical garden at this place . 
Even hardened criminals felt chilled to their spines at the mere mention of the word Kolhu . 
The torture at times used to be unbearable . 
To show their sympathy and support the other freedom fighters undergoing imprisonment in different jails of the country also started hunger strike . 
With the intervention of gandhi and Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore the strike came to an end . 
The hard work and dedication of the Japanese was the secret of their progress as a great nation . 
It was personally a great shock to Churchill , since he never expected an Asian power to achieve such a phenomenal success . 
Rarely have the vanquished helped win so much . 
Mohan Singh was not allowed to form another division and even the one division formed was not given adequate supplies and other provisions . 
There were also some differences between Mohan Singh and Ras Behari Bose . 
The army authorities became suspicious about the motives of Mohan Singh and removed him from the post of G . 
as many of them preferred to go back as POWs and some of them were sent there by the Japanese . 
The intelligence report gathered by Colonel Iwakuro revealed that Subhas Chandra Bose alone could control the situation . 
It was under these circumstances that Subhas Chandra Bose was urgently summoned to South East Asia . 
The Government was highly perturbed by his activities . 
In his reply the Chief Secretary admitted that arrangements for the journey from Pune to Thane were not proper . 
andaman islands were the forward air bases of Japan which posed a direct threat to Ceylon and India . 
From this base the Japanese carried out successful air raids to Calcutta . 
Initially , the British tried to cultivate Subhas and soften his edges and invited him to England . 
Their empire was shaking to its foundation , and they had no resources left to face the advance of Japan . 
America after its humiliating defeat at Pearl Harbour was itching to take revenge . 
The British had the brain and planning while America had immense resources , and they both agreed to pool these together . 
When they resorted to typical Mughal court intrigues which they had mastered during their stay in India . 
They were sent by submarines for various sabotage tasks . 
Some of the Indian officials who had served in the islands were also used for helping in processing the intelligence reports . 
After extensive training they were dropped at strategic locations by the submarines . 
Air raids were organised on this basis . 
He attached great importance to Cellular Jail and the Andamans . 
The date 15 August was of special significance in the life of Mountbatten . 
It seems that there was some deliberate move to induct Mountbatten in the affairs of India for a long time . 
During this time Bal Gangadhar Tilak 's revolutionary paper Kesari was spreading the message of the revolution . 
The Congress activities were also increasing day by day . 
It is possible that Wavell was asked by Mountbatten to make his independent assessment about the future of the islands . 
The period of military rule was surprisingly cut short and Patterson handed over charge of Chief Commissioner on 7 February 1946 to Inamul Majid , 
Majid was the first Indian ever to be appointed to that post . 
The Andaman Islands are a Chief Commissioner 's Province and are , therefore , administered by the Central Government . 
If there were an independent Bengal a decision is needed whether Andamans should go with Bengal or with Hindustan . 
It is true that we are contemplating the transfer of power on the basis of Dominion Status as an interim measure . 
The Viceroy Lord Mountbatten knew well that Indian people had a sentimental attachment with these islands and would never agree to part with them . 
The practice is likely to end with the direct participation of the Nicobarese in the administration . 
The Car Nicobar and other islands around it have been declared as tribal areas and entry of outsiders is regulated through permit . 
the Nicobarese have absolute unalienable right to the tribal land , which is exercised by the Chief Captain . 
The Government has also to approach the Chief Captain for the purchase of land whenever they stand in need for it . 
The Captain readily agreed . 
The islands were awarded the President 's Shield by the Government of India for increasing the production of paddy by 15 per cent . 
People of the islands , particularly of Port Blair , have to depend upon tinned or powder milk for their requirements . 
It is gratifying that the administration has taken up some positive steps in the direction of improving the breed of the milch animals . 
To give adequate medical cover and to carry out other development programs under animal husbandry there are 9 veterinary hospitals , besides 7 dispensaries . 
Preservation of semen for artificial insemination was a big problem in these islands . 
With the latest technology , frozen semen can now be preserved in liquid nitrogen forever . 
Towards the end of the nineteenth century Bengal had taken over the lead of the freedom movement . 
There were many restrictions imposed upon the students ' activities and publication of periodicals etc . 
It is immortal because it is not man made . ' 
God can neither be killed nor be silenced by putting in Jail ' . 
In the absence of training facilities in the islands , they were sent to the mainland . 
Schooling facilities have been provided in almost all the habitations of the territory . 
In the Andaman group of islands the main center of business activities is Port Blair . 
and there is hardly anything which is not available here and which might be available in other big cities . 
Most of the important business concerns in the country have had their branches opened here . 
wheat and 3COMMA988 M . 
The Administration has the facility of police wireless which helps in contacting the Government of India on urgent matters . 
Press and Information 
Thus people forgot all about their caste and religion . 
Similarly , the language adopted was simple Hindustani . 
with which they communicate in this language . 
Even children of South Indian families prefer to talk in this language among themselves . 
There are many illustrious people who have come up from the local born families . 
His father Ratnam was a well reputed businessman and there is a market named after him which is called Ratnam Market . 
It is heartening to note that religion is treated as a personal matter of belief . 
Thus a Hindu girl marrying a Muslim boy or a Muslim girl marrying a Hindu boy is a normal phenomenon in these islands . 
The Swami Vivekanand Memorial Society has opened an educational institution at Port Blair which also organises seminars and debates . 
The Chinmayanand Mission runs a similar institution at Port Blair . 
There is also a school run by the Anand Margis . 
The Bahai Association has worked in these islands for many years . 
There is a substantial population of Christians at Port Blair , belonging to both the Roman Catholic and the Methodist Churches . 
Bishop Shrinivasan was an institution in these islands , having lived here for quite a long time . 
He belonged to the Methodist Church and was well conversant with these islands . 
He died recently . 
He then left for some unknown destination abroad . 
Most of them are working in the forest department and at other places . 
The missionaries have opened a school for them . 
The Nicobar group of islands has altogether a different story . 
There is nothing common between this group and the Andaman group so far as people and their life are concerned . 
Even the history is different . 
The Nicobarese society is a closed one and all these foreign missionaries in all those years failed to make a dent . 
The British therefore thought of utilising the services of an Indian missionary of South India , Vedappan Soloman . 
Soloman was running a mission school at Haddo in Port Blair . 
No trace either of the dinghy or the boys could be found . 
They get upset at the slightest inconvenience and the government officials have a difficult task to bring them round . 
But , unfortunately , during this period , many people from Japan and China also started migrating to these countries . 
Most of the people belonged to Punjab . 
They were further annoyed at the attitude of the British authorities at Delhi and London , who had turned deaf ears to their plight . 
Lala Lajpat Rai happened to reach there at this critical juncture . 
Many people perforce had to return to India . 
The Indians who managed to stay in America started organising themselves . 
Their dynamic leader Lala Hardayal was an extraordinary person endowed with great talent . 
He was elected president of their organization for which a rich Sikh Sardar Jwala Singh made generous contribution . 
The author had the privilege of attending one such feast . 
Wrestling and boat races are also held and are witnessed by all the villages . 
who is believed to have the powers of smelling evil spirits and driving them away . 
In this wooden figures with real or mythological animals , birds , fish , crocodiles , or human beings are carved or painted . 
These figures are always aggressive and monstrous as they are supposed to scare and drive away the evil spirits . 
The Nicobarese seriously believe a lot of mythological tales to be true . 
It is , however , quite difficult to answer this question . 
For years the issue is being debated upon between anthropologists and social scientists . 
The islands did not grow sufficient foodgrains . 
The Japanese had also to feed the locals besides their own people . 
The only means of getting food was through ships . 
With the arrival of Mountbatten on the scene the allied strength in the ocean both in battleships and submarines was considerably enhanced . 
The allied powers had sunk more than 750 commercial ships by 1944 . 
People under suspicion of passing on information to the allies were arrested on the slightest pretext . 
News of the Japanese surrender reached the islands on 15 August . 
There was a change in the general atmosphere and also in the attitude of the Japanese . 
But the actual proclamation was made to the public by the Governor on the 21st . 
In the sea all the mines were laid , to prevent any entry of enemy ships . 
The documents were then handed over for signature . 
For the Allies Brigadier Soloman , Captain J . 
Immediately afterwards the Japanese handed over their swords , saluted in turn and marched off toward their cars . 
The islands thus changed hands twice without a fight . 
One of the first decisions that the Government took after the reoccupation was to abolish the Penal Settlement . 
Some 4COMMA200 convicts who were repatriated to their homes availed of the offer . 
Six moribund souls were found alive and were brought to Port Blair . 
Investigation started about the atrocities of the Japanese and their Indian collaborators . 
It is a different matter that out of fear of the Japanese administration people did not come out with the true facts . 
These occupational forces had no experience and knowledge of administering a civil area outside Japan . 
It is possible that he held discussions with the local officers about the future of these islands and also with the Viceroy Lord Wavell . 
Lord Wavell , accompanied by Lady Wavell , also visited these islands . 
This at once brought the islands on the world tourist map and resultantly there was big boom in the tourist traffic . 
Trade and Commerce 
The traders come with their original invoices and other particulars of the commodities they have received on a particular ship . 
The Department is also running four departmental stores at Kamorta , Campbell Bay , Car Nicobar and Neil Island . 
All types of information , including weather forecasts and warnings of cyclones , is given by the AIR . 
The AIR thus also helps the administration by providing information about the happenings in the interior . 
After Independence the islands were flooded with hordes of people . 
Others included repatriats from Burma , Sri Lanka . 
the main reason of which is the Penal Settlement where a large number of freedom fighters and convicts came without their families . 
Many of the employees of the settlement were also without families . 
This pulp can be preserved for long durations . 
Besides , they also have yam , pig and chicken . 
However , nowadays they are also using rice and other cereals in considerable quantities . 
Even pig and chicken depend upon coconut . 
The Nicobarese are very fond of stimulants . 
Toddy prepared from coconut is drunk on several occasions and now . 
The Tamil repatriates from Sri Lanka were also settled in the rubber plantations of Katchal and Shaitan Khari . 
Some were also settled in Little Andaman . 
Quite a high percentage of Malayalees work in the government departments ; almost 90 per cent of the stenographers are Malayalees . 
They have many cultural organizations and many festivals are celebrated with great enthusiasm . 
The people originally hailing from Andhra region mostly live in and around Port Blair . 
Some of them are in trade and business . 
Most of them belong to the poor strata of society . 
They have constructed a beautiful cultural hall at Port Blair . 
The people from South India do not have much difficulty in finding food which is to their liking . 
There are many people from other regions also . 
but with others they communicate in simple Hindi . 
Later , even this formality was dispensed with . 
To reciprocate this friendly gesture we set off in the dinghy towards their huts . 
However , seeing their elders smiling at us their confidence was restored and they too joined us . 
Some men had wrapped barks of trees round their chest , as protection against the piercing arrows . 
There we saw very small huts where some pork and honey were stored . 
Some of the men and women came along with us and some more wanted to come in the dinghy . 
The dinghy was sent and more Jarawas came to the boat . 
One lady , while examining the spectacles of our anthropologist , broke its frame . 
Some of them showed a lot of acrobatics . 
After some time , when their initial excitement was over , gifts were distributed which they accepted with great enthusiasm . 
They had a great sense of humor and kept us laughing all the time by their pranks . 
One played a subtle joke on the Sardarji . 
He gave his share to his wife and stood for the second time to claim his share of gifts . 
But his mischievous yet innocent laugh failed to befool the Sardarji who showed him the place where he had kept his share . 
These make this museum quite meaningful and interesting . 
There is a small fisheries museum at Port Blair which gives an idea about the potential of the marine wealth in these islands . 
There are about 350 specimen of sea life ; the exhibit of the carcass of a shark is awe inspiring . 
There is a small zoo at Port Blair which has other birds and animals , besides the ones found in these islands . 
Sometimes , the local craftsmen also display their items for sale in this emporium . 
Miniature canoes and palm mats for floors and tables are also available here . 
There are other shell and woodcraft units owned by local people which also provide various rare souvenirs . 
The sawmill , situated in a small island of Chatham , joined to Port Blair by a bridge . 
They were prepared to give everything for the cause of India 's freedom . 
The Japanese had entrusted the liaison work to their intelligence officer Fujiwara , who played a prominent role in carrying out negotiations . 
Captain Mohan Singh had initially told Fujiwara that Subhas Chandra Bose alone could successfully give a lead to the liberation forces . 
He commanded great respect among the higher echelons of Japan . 
He delivered many talks from Radio Tokyo emphasizing that an enemy 's enemy was a friend . 
His speeches made a great impression on the Japanese Prime Minister . 
It was perhaps this single factor which made the British decide to quit India and for this full credit goes to Subhas Chandra Bose . 
under the magic spell of his ' Onward to Delhi ' slogan . 
Gerade H . 
but ironically it was as prisoners that they made their biggest impact on the Indian people and Government of India . 
According to Gerad H . 
The second difficulty was about the arrangement of safe passage for Bose from Berlin to Singapore . 
The Japanese Ambassador Lt . 
It was finally decided that a German submarine would carry Bose half way and the other half would be covered by Japan . 
This bond of mutual love and affection was to carry them through the most difficult periods of supreme sacrifice . 
In a public meeting Ras Behari Bose handed over the entire organization to Bose and henceforth Subhas Chandra Bose began to be called Netaji . 
Jai Hind became the word of greetings . 
The Congress tricolor flag was adopted with a slight change . 
The spinning wheel was replaced by a springing tiger . 
as is clear from his letter dated 26 August 1943 to Kikari Kikan . 
It was a historic day . 
an emotionally charged gathering cheered every word of Netaji which was followed by thunderous applause . 
India 's army of liberation is confident of fulfilling its historic role . 
Netaji received congratulations from Eamon De Velera , President of the Irish Free State . 
When Mountbatten joined , most of the countries were under Japan . 
It was through this organization that he was able to change the course of history in this region . 
Churchill carried out his secret negotiations with Mohammed AH Jinnah through him . 
Mountbatten was having direct and secret links with many political leaders in India . 
The British knew that people in South East Asia had generally welcomed Japan as a liberator from colonial domination . 
He had been tortured by having red hot needles pushed half an inch under his nails . 
The Japanese Wireless Monitoring Station at the same time intercepted messages sent out from the islands . 
and was received at Lamba Line aerodrome , by Admiral Ishikava , the overall chief in the islands . 
he was taken to the erstwhile Government House at Ross Island . 
The entire route was lined by men , women and children . 
It must be mentioned here that , prior to the war , Ross Island was the seat of the administration . 
There was a regular ferry service between Aberdeen and Ross Island . 
People lost all interest in life and property . 
By this time two events of far reaching importance took place . 
By June 1945 , bombing had become more frequent . 
The Japanese authorities proclaimed that there was very limited scope for agriculture at Port Blair . 
To make up for this deficiency they had a plan to bring virgin land under cultivation by clearing forests . 
But there was a sinister motive behind this welfare project . 
More people became interested and the original number of 400 to 500 further increased to 600 . 
following day , when most of them started complaining of hunger and thirst , they were all bundled up in trucks . 
About 300 people were asked to board the ship Akbar and the rest were loaded in the two LCTs 
The people did not understand . 
They thought it was a joke but when they saw that they really meant it they were aghast . 
But how could they become food for the sharks ! 
but the Japanese did not relent . 
few managed to reach the shore . 
The people all over the islands have taken to coconut plantation . 
When the people initially settled here they were given land for paddy cultivation in the valleys and in the adjoining hilly areas . 
Even those cows who give some milk are not given proper care and after milking are left free to roam about for grazing . 
The mam reason for this poor quality of the livestock in these islands is the distance factor from the mainland . 
There are no good animals in the islands , and the only source of pedigree animals is the mainland . 
which was accepted by the Government of India . 
The sponsoring authority is the andaman Administration and the scheme is financed by the Indian Dairy Corporation , Baroda . 
A milk chilling plant of 4COMMA000 litres capacity has been installed at the Dollygunj Farm complex . 
Later , the shipping service was dislocated to a great extent . 
Whenever the ship touched Port Blair it would become a big occasion . 
whenever they sighted someone from their native land disembark , irrespective of whether they knew him or not , they would embrace him . 
Very often it becomes difficult for the local man to get a seat for an urgent visit to the mainland . 
The demonstrations by people for not getting a berth is a common sight in Port Blair . 
The Malays often raided their settlements and sold them as slaves in the markets of South East Asia . 
They became so afraid that they were forced to retire into the deep jungles . 
Even now , during dark nights Malay boats visit these shores with smuggled goods . 
The Nicobarese are an extremely happy go lucky people . 
Everyone lives on terms of perfect equality with his neighbors . 
Theirs is a simple democracy bound by custom . 
even today all cases which do not involve outsiders are decided by their headman , called Captain or the Council . 
One of the greatest gifts to these islands of Bishop Richardson has been the introduction of Western sports which are immensely popular . 
, is played with tremendous enthusiasm . 
All the year round a Nicobari is always celebrating some festival , either social or religious . 
The invitations are sent to other villages about a week before the date of the annual ceremony . 
The people of Car Nicobar are extremely fond of the pig , which plays an important part in their social or religious functions . 
After sacrificing the pig , some of them smear their bodies with its blood . 
As in the case of his wife , on whom women attend , in his case it is the menfolk who surround him . 
However , in the case of subsequent deliveries , the period of confinement of a man is reduced just to one or two days . 
Some people have termed the religious form of Nicobarese as ' undisguised animism ' . 
Most of their time is spent in either pleasing or driving away the numerous spirits . 
These spirits are feared for their evil power of bringing bad luck and are believed to cause immense harm to life and property . 
It is also found in western Rajasthan , Baroda and northern parts of Maharashtra . 
Horns are of medium thickness curving backwards , upwards and forwards ending in a spiral inward sweep . 
These animals have a narrow face and broad forehead which is slightly dished . 
The eyes are big with wrinkles above the eyelids . 
The horns are thick , symmetrical and curve outwards , upwards and inwards with the pointed tip curved backwards . 
The barrel is long , deep and compact , legs strong and straight with hard hoofs . 
The udder is medium in size with good shape . 
In what sports should I wear a mouthguard ? 
Anytime there is a strong chance for contact with other participants or hard surfaces , it is advisable to wear a mouthguard . 
Why dont kids wear mouthguards ? 
Some , though not all schools , reinforce the health advantage of mouthguards for their contact sports . 
Cost may be another consideration , although mouthguards come in a variety of price ranges . 
What are the different types of mouthguards ? 
The bullocks are good for light work . 
These animals resemble the Amritmahal breed , except that they are bigger in frame with coarser shoulders . 
The bullocks are fast and powerful draught animals . 
These animals have a massive head with a deep furrow in the center of the forehead . 
The horns are long and pointed , emerging close to each other at top of the poll in upward direction . 
The barrel is long and compact , legs strong and long , sheath small , tail thin and short . 
The body is long and compact , legs strong , sheath tucked up and tail short . 
The prevailing color of these animals is white . 
This breed has a long head and bulging forehead . 
These animals are red in color with large splashes of white in the various parts of the body . 
The prevailing color of this breed is black and white . 
The bullocks are compact and active . 
This breed is spread over a large area around the western banks of the Indus river . 
Pedigree herds are also found in Karnataka , Madras , Travancore , Orissa and Punjab . 
These animals have great adaptability and do well outside their own habitat . 
The bullocks are small and are used for light work . 
The legs are short and the tail is long . 
The udder is of good size with medium teats . 
The breed is invariably red in color , but some animals may be found with white markings . 
The back is long with an elevation from withers to hook bones and drooping from hook to pin bones . 
In some animals patches of white color are also found . 
These animals have a thick coat to protect them against severe cold and rain . 
In the plains , these animals do not fare well . 
These animals are of medium size . 
They are considered economical for milk and ghee production . 
The animals are black in color with white markings on the face , legs and tip of the tail . 
The best breeding tract comprises Rohtak , Hissar , Jind , Nabha and Patiala districts of the Punjab . 
These animals are noted for milk and ghee production and have been introduced in many parts of India . 
The horns are short , flat and turning backwards , upwards and curling inwards in a spiral form . 
The animals are black in color with white markings on switch of the tail . 
The males are slow movers but are largely used for draught purposes . 
These animals have a long head and broad forehead . 
The switch may be black or white . 
The head is . 
The switch is always white . 
The cows have straight top lines , level rump and good udders . 
Ayreshires are of red color with white markings or white with red markings . 
The red may be very light or almost black . 
Cows of this breed have large bones , large heads which are usually dished , and thick , loose skin . 
The muzzle and stripes along the backbone are light in color . 
The nose , switch , and horn tips are black . 
These animals are less rugged than the Holstein , but more rugged than the Jersey . 
The cows are inclined to be rough over the rump and weak in the loin . 
The udders are less symmetrical than those of the Jersey . 
Cows of this breed are alert and active . 
It is more economical than maintaining a stud bull , especially in small herds . 
Semen from bulls located at distant places can be used . 
By artificial insemination , spread of certain diseases can also be controlled . 
This will enable her to get sufficient rest before the next lactation period . 
The animal urinates frequently and in small quantities . 
There is a depression near the pin bones . 
Before storing , soak your mouthguard in mouthwash . 
Make sure the box has several holes so the mouthguard will dry . 
Heat is bad for mouthguards , so dont leave it in direct sunlight or in a closed automobile . 
Reprinted with permission from the Academy of General Dentistry , AGD Impact , July 1998 , pg . 
Partners for Better Oral Hygiene 
Who are the partners ? 
Dental health begins with good oral hygiene . 
Green fodders are the best source for supply of vitamins to the animal . 
They supply protein , minerals and carotene . 
Silage is nutritious and easily digested by cattle . 
In addition , a milch cow should be given one kilogram of concentrate mixture for every two and a half kilograms of milk produced . 
In the case of a buffalo , for every two kilograms of milk , one kilogram of concentrate mixture should be given . 
A pregnant animal should get an extra allowance of about one kilogram of grain mixture during the last two months of pregnancy . 
Calculus , which is mostly mineral , provides a rough surface that makes thorough plaque removal more difficult . 
Calculus can only be removed during a regular dental prophylaxis . 
A prophylaxis is a scaling and polishing procedure performed to remove normal plaque , calculus and stains . 
They have followed in the footsteps of man through the ages , contributing to his sustenance by supplying food and clothing . 
Sheep produce two different kinds of crops each year , wool and lambs . 
Sheep also provide rich manure . 
Wherever sheep flocks are cared for and flourish , agriculture has thriven . 
Sheep manure is considered a valuable source of fertilizer . 
An individual sheep adds 0 . 
It contains twice as much of nitrogen and potassium as is present in cattle manure . 
The Deccan Plateau has the largest population of flocks , particularly on the eastern side of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu . 
The majority of sheep of this area are , however , hairy and are of mutton type . 
Australia , New Zealand , China , former USSR , UK and Spain have sizeable population of sheep . 
The remaining wool clip is classed as carpet wool . 
Selected flocks are raised in the Nalia area of western Kutch . 
Wool from these sheep is used for the manufacture of army hosiery and tweeds . 
The color of the fleece is white . 
The annual yield varies from one to two kilograms . 
These animals are of medium size , and are well built . 
The wool from these sheep is loose , coarse , and mixed with fine undercoat . 
It is generally of black or gray colors . 
The average annual yield is less than 500 grams . 
The rams are horned and the ewes are polled . 
The period of pregnancy in ewes varies form 142 to 152 days , with an average of 147 days . 
Unlike other animals , ewes generally do not come In heat throughout the year but are seasonal in this respect . 
They come into heat every 13 to 19 days , the average being 18 days during the breeding season . 
The period of heat in ewes lasts from 3 to 70 hours , with an average of 27 hours . 
At the time of lambing , the ewe shows a characteristic vertical movement of the tail and usually lags behind the flock . 
In normal birth , the lamb presents itself with the head in between its front legs . 
Healthy ewes do not require any help at lambing . 
The lamb may be helped , if it is weak . 
In cold weather , the ewe and the newborn lamb should be kept in a warm place . 
Sheep milk contains more fat , casein and sugar than cow 's milk . 
Sheep milk is yellow in color and the fat globules are large . 
Sheep thrive on natural grasses , herbs and farm wastes . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
However , plaque that builds up along the gumline and between the teeth in hard to reach places can be harmful . 
Plaque buildup is a primary factor in gum disease . 
The prevention of tartar buildup above the gumline has not been shown to have a therapeutic effect on gum disease . 
It specially helps in putting a bloom and sheen on a horse 's coat . 
Where available , molasses may be substituted for a part of the grain . 
The most natural feed for horses is pasture grass . 
Good pasture is essential for their healthy and quick growth . 
Grasses are not only the best protective feed , but also help in reducing the feed and ration costs . 
Green grass is especially important for brood mares and foals . 
Carrots are also relished by horses . 
Hay or grass used for feeding should be clean and free from dust . 
A foal should be handled frequently from an early age . 
The colts should be taught to lead when they are one to two months old . 
At first he can be led alongside his mother when she is taken out for exercise or water . 
A horse should be brought to full work gradually . 
Great patience and care are required to train a colt . 
Training should be on a system of reward or punishment , and it should immediately follow the action which deserves it . 
Horses learn to obey largely by association of actions with commands . 
An idle horse requires more thorough grooming than a horse at work . 
Horses should be lightly groomed before going to work but they should be given vigorous grooming on their return . 
The animal , however , must be cool and dry when groomed . 
Brush should be used on tender parts of head and legs . 
Shoeing of Horses 
' No foot , no horse ' , is an old saying . 
The stables should be so constructed as to provide sufficient protection from inclement weather , excessive heat , cold , and rain . 
Cool quarters with good ventilation are preferable to warm , close stables . 
It makes the hoof soft and liable to many foot troubles . 
The stables should always be kept clean and dry . 
Wet and dirty beddings cause skin diseases . 
In the cold weather , the horse should be covered with a blanket after the work is over . 
Determining the Age of a Horse 
Horses have three pairs of incisor teeth in each of the upper and lower jaws . 
The horse at this stage is said to be smooth mouthed . 
Horses may live up to the age of 40 years , but the average working life of a horse is twelve to fifteen years . 
They are commonly known for their stupidity and obstinacy . 
With sympathetic and proper handling , these vices can be minimized . 
In India , there were 1.02 million donkeys in 1982 . 
The small gray donkey is found in most parts of the country . 
There is no particular season for breeding donkeys . 
They can be bred throughout the year . 
Matured male can be allowed 160 coverings in a year but not more than two services a day . 
The gestation period in females varies from 11 to 12 months . 
The usual length of time between heat periods is 21 to 28 days . 
Donkeys need to be shod like horses . 
Both male and female mules are infertile . 
Mule is known for its great capacity for endurance under adverse conditions of climate and food . 
The mule is said to be its own boss . 
Mules working on hard ground need to be shod the same way as horses . 
Mules can work till the age of 18 to 20 years or even longer . 
A healthy animal is active and alert . 
The temperature increases when the animal is excited or at work . 
Common Diseases of Equines 
Preventive measures include isolation of all suspected cases , chlorination of drinking water and adoption of strict hygienic measures . 
Initially there is a slight watery nasal discharge , which soon becomes thick and yellowish white , abundant and bilateral . 
Throat is sore with occasional cough . 
The lump gradually increases in size . 
There is rise in temperature , difficulty in breathing and frothy discharge from the nostrils . 
Temperature however falls below normal before death . 
The animal may die in three to four days . 
Mortality rate in this form of disease is nearly 95 per cent . 
In the case of the mixed form of the disease , both heart and lungs are affected . 
CAMEL has been aptly described as the ship of the desert . 
The Riverine camel are great baggagers . 
They are big in stature , but slow in movement . 
They can march 19 to 22 kilometres at a stretch . 
The Riverine camel possesses coarse head with Roman nose . 
Both , the male and the female , face in the same direction . 
At the time of calving , nature should be allowed to have its own course . 
As far as possible , unnecessary interference should be avoided . 
After calving , the calf should be wiped clean and directed to the dam 's teats . 
The supplementary ration may be in the form of green or dry fodder . 
A continuous feeding of dry fodders renders the camels prone to indigestion and skin diseases . 
Changes in diet should be brought on gradually . 
If given with the grain , it is fed in the evening . 
Water elimination through urine and faeces in camels is also comparatively very meager . 
Because of all these factors , a camel can go without water for a much longer period than other animals can . 
Camels have very high drinking capacity . 
They may drink as much as 135 litres at a time . 
The water given to camels should be fresh and clean . 
Camels prefer still water or slowly flowing water to that of running streams . 
Water should be given before feeding , and after unloading . 
Camels , like any other domestic animal , need adequate protection against draughts , sun and rain . 
During summer months , camels may , however , be kept in the open . 
A portable feeding trough should be provided , preferably under a good shady tree . 
A sand bedding on which a little water is sprinkled in the evening , is considered comfortable for the night 's rest . 
It should , however , be simple and not very expensive . 
The open side should not face the direction of the prevailing winds . 
The roof may be made of tiles or a thatch . 
The floor should have a slight slope backwards , with a drain at the end . 
The feeding manger should be of pucca bricks , and should be at a height of about eight centimetres from the ground . 
Camel is comparatively a slow maturing animal . 
A camel at the age of eight years is in very much the same state of maturity as a horse at five years . 
The young camel should be taught as to how to keep to the line of march . 
Roughly , 160 to 180 kilograms freshly cut grass or fodder should be considered sufficient to meet a day 's requirement . 
Rice or paddy when coarsely ground is more easily digested . 
Cooked onions and tamarind pulp are also added , particularly during the hot season . 
In addition they are given 56 grams of salt and 28 grams of oil daily . 
Large animals are provided 90 kilograms of dry fodder and 215 kilograms of green fodder . 
They should be watered about an hour before they are fed . 
In spite of their formidable size , elephants are surprisingly quick and obedient and possess remarkable ability to work for man . 
Although the elephant is a large animal , its power of endurance is much less than is generally supposed . 
It possesses comparatively a delicate constitution . 
It generally occurs during rainy season and takes a severe and rapid course . 
This disease is characterised by rise in temperature and bleeding from the mucous membranes . 
It is most prevalent during the early rains or towards the close of the monsoon . 
Apart from general preventive measures , treatment is not of much avail . 
The urine is scanty and markedly greenish in color . 
Animal loses condition gradually . 
Mouth and feet of the affected animals should be washed three or four times daily with some mild astringent lotion . 
The disease is not a fatal one , but if proper care is not taken , it may result in serious dislocation of work . 
Remember , most TMJ problems will resolve over time . 
There are at least 50 different treatments available , often reflecting the type of provider seen . 
Most patients who seek care initially improve with a variety of treatments and may even improve without treatment . 
Many cases of implant failure have led to serious complications . 
The yearly averages for the American breeds of White Leghorn and Rhode Island Red are 193 and 212 eggs respectively . 
The size of the egg of the Indian hen is also very small . 
The pattern is changing now with many organized farms producing poultry on scientific lines . 
A very large majority of the domestic fowls in India are nondescript . 
The number of improved fowls in India is very small . 
It is estimated at only 5.16 per cent of the total fowl population in the country . 
It does not do well on heavy or wet soils and in hilly areas . 
The standard weight of a cock of this breed is 2.7 kilograms and of a hen is 2 kilograms . 
The standard weight of the cock is 3.8 kilograms and of the hen 3 kilograms . 
The standard weight of the cock is 3.6 kilograms and of the hen 3 kilograms . 
In India , the cocks of this breed have proved useful for upgrading the ordinary desi hens . 
In India , this breed is rapidly gaining popularity , especially in the wet and heavy rainfall regions . 
The standard weight of the cock is 3.8 kilograms and of the hen 3 kilograms . 
The standard weight of the cock is 4 kilograms and of the hen 3.2 kilograms . 
The breed is a good producer of large brown shelled eggs . 
The standard weight of the cock is 3.8 kilograms and of the hen 2.7 kilograms . 
Crosses of these breeds are also very popular . 
The cock of the White Cornish breed has a standard weight of 3.6 kilograms and the hen 2.7 kilograms . 
hoppers , nest boxes , water utensils , and the cage for keeping the birds at night should be kept under the shed . 
To protect the birds from strong winds , curtains made of thatch or canvas cloth may be provided . 
Shady trees in the yard besides providing shade also act as wind breakers and help in keeping down the temperature in summer . 
Mulberry and citrus trees are considered suitable for the purpose . 
They form a nice shady umbrella during the summer months . 
During winter , these trees should be thinned to permit sufficient sunshine in the yard . 
By adoption of this system , substantial saving is effected in the expenditure on land and labor . 
It should neither be so finely powdered to become dusty nor so coarse and hard as to make its mixing with the droppings difficult . 
Before putting fresh material on the floor , all old litter and debris . 
In places like big cities , where space is very scarce , laying batteries are provided under the intensive system . 
Laying battery is a collection of cages used for housing laying hens . 
The laying hens are housed individually one in each cage . 
They are kept confined in these cages throughout the day and night . 
A convenient size of laying battery will be a unit of about seven cages constructed in a row in one single frame . 
A hen has been described to be only an egg 's way of making another egg , 
The cost of feed represents more than half the total expenditure on raising poultry . 
For most economical production , poultry need a full feeding of a balanced ration . 
It is necessary to combine a number of feedstuffs to prepare a balanced ration . 
It is not only important to supply all the nutrients , but more important to supply them in just the right proportions . 
Protein feeds , especially animal proteins are expensive . 
Chickens can live longer without food than without water . 
Poultry needs to have water available constantly since they drink only small quantities at one time . 
Chickens must drink every 15 to 20 minutes . 
Approximate quantities of water required daily for 100 chicks up to four weeks of age are six to seven litres . 
Hatching of Eggs 
After this period , the chick inside the egg breaks its outer shell with the tip of its beak and comes out . 
Soiled eggs should not be washed before setting , as washing opens the pores in the shell and this affects the hatching adversely . 
Highly soiled eggs should not be used for hatching . 
Think it through first . 
And try to go to traders who have a good reputation for treating their customers fairly . 
Do not give up at the first hurdle of the trader is unhelpful or even obstructive . 
If you have a valid compliant , you have a right to have the problem sorted out . 
Make a note of the conversation and to whom you spoke . 
What is reasonable is not fixed ; it depends on all the circumstances . 
But normally you can at least take your purchase home and try it out . 
You do not have to agree to any such offer . 
So you may be left with an unwanted credit note if you can not find anything else you like in the shop . 
Moreover , some credit notes may be valid for only a limited period . 
Once you have , in the legal sense , ' accepted goods , ' you lose your right to a full refund . 
You can only claim compensation , and you have to keep your claim to a reasonable minimum . 
Normally you have to accept an offer to put the goods right , or the cost of a repair . 
Some goods have manufacturers ' guarantees . 
These are useful when your statutory rights no longer apply . 
Claiming under guarantees often results in fewer quibbles than relying on the statutory rights , provided you complain within the guarantee period . 
Membership does not guarantee satisfactory work , but if anything goes wrong , it could make it easier to get things put right . 
Terms that define what you get and how much you pay are not covered unless they are unclear . 
So the law can not be used to argue that a contract does not represent fair value for money . 
An ideal must be met between the physician and the patient as no single routine can suit all situations . 
Learning to live with Diabetes provides merely guidelines in this direction . 
Twenty varieties , according to the nature of urine , have been described in the ancient Hindu texts under the subject prameha . 
If you have the receipt or other proof of purchase , take this with you . 
Explain the problem , say what you want done , and set a deadline . 
If you are not satisfied , put your complaint in writing . 
If the shop is part of a chain , write to the head office . 
Address your letter to the customer services manager or the chairman . 
If none of this works , get further advice , or consider whether you want to take the matter further by going to court . 
Complaining about services 
Give the supplier a chance to put the matter right . 
If you are not satisfied , put your complaint in writing , saying what you have done , and set a deadline . 
If you are dealing with a larger business , address your letter to the customer services manager or the chairman . 
It may be desirable to seek further advice . 
You may wish to take advice on this . 
If you stop paying , it could affect your credit rating and so your chance of getting credit in the future . 
Continuing to pay will not undermine any claim you have against the lender for unsatisfactory service by a supplier . 
Keep copies of letters along with a diary of events and a note of any telephone calls . 
Consider getting a written expert opinion to back up your complaint . 
This may cost money , but could be invaluable if you need to take legal action . 
If you have a problem with goods or services bought on credit , you may have some additional protection . 
Who can help ? 
They can help in many situations relating to goods and services . 
They will often advise on everyday shopping problems . 
The address is in the telephone book under the local authority to which you pay your council tax . 
These offer advice and information shoppers and traders , and deal with problems and complaints . 
These are places where you can get free advice from qualified lawyers . 
It is worth checking if there is one near you . 
Traders often belong to trade associations . 
If they have , then an arbitrator should find in your favor . 
Not everyone who claims to be a member of a trade association is , so it is worth checking with the association . 
Your bill will have a customer service telephone number that you can call . 
These four utilities all have a regulator who has the power to help resolve customers ' problems . 
Contact numbers for these regulators can also be found on the back of your bill . 
Taking further action 
If you are struggling to get a complaint sorted out , you can take further action . 
Just telling a trader who is being unhelpful or obstructive that you will go to court could be enough to get your complaint resolved . 
If you do have to take legal action , it can be much easier than it sounds and could be well worth the effort . 
If the trader is a member of a trade association , there may be a conciliation or arbitration scheme you can use . 
But arbitration may not necessarily be cheaper than going to court under the small claims procedure . 
Check what fees you will be expected to pay if you lose the case . 
In conciliation , the idea is to enable the parties to settle their differences themselves . 
Arbitration is more like going to court , and is very straightforward . 
Arbitration is often done in writing . 
If you feel happier putting your case in person , you should consider using the small claims procedure in the County Court . 
Before going to arbitration or to court you may wish to seek an impartial opinion on the merits of your case . 
Your local citizens advice bureau can help you find such a solicitor . 
These ' small claims ' cases are heard informally in private . 
Fees depend on the amount claimed . 
The small claims procedure is designed to be used without either side having to go to solicitors . 
If your opponent employs a solicitor , you can not be charged the cost even if you lose your case . 
You do not need to use technical language . 
As a result of excess sugar , the diabetics , they have observed , will develop multiple abscesses in the body . 
But they are not enforceable if a court finds them unfair . 
The seller may offer you a ' special ' discount , ' free ' gift or other incentive if you agree to sign immediately . 
Do not feel pressured by this kind of offer . 
Make sure you read any agreement very carefully before signing , and if there 's anything you do not understand , ask . 
The rule is ' buyer beware ' , so make sure you check that you are getting a good buy . 
But , in practice , this could be difficult to enforce . 
So it is a good idea to take someone with you when buying privately , to act as a witness . 
You should also ask for a written description of the goods . 
Beware of traders who pose as private sellers , perhaps at a car boot sale or through a small advertisement . 
This practice is illegal and takes advantage of the fact that you have fewer rights when you buy from a private seller . 
If the person is a trader , your statutory rights will then apply . 
The trading standards department can also take action to stop the trader posing as a private seller . 
Some manufacturers are also willing to replace or offer refunds on new cars provided they are returned within a certain time of mileage limit . 
You will need to consider how much these offers are worth to you when you are deciding whether you are getting a good deal . 
Buying a used car from a dealer 
When you go to a garage , take a friend for a second opinion , preferably one who knows about cars . 
Selling a car with a false mileage is illegal . 
Your dealer may have access to a database of vehicle mileages . 
Ask if any check has been made . 
You could ask to see the vehicle registration document and contact the last owner to check the mileage . 
Ask for proof of identity . 
Inspect the car at the seller 's home in daylight and satisfy yourself that the seller lives there . 
Be wary of relying on the seller 's assurance that the car is insured for you to drive . 
You can not complain later if there is a fault you did not see or identify , unless there was misrepresentation . 
There will be a service record book in which servicing details should have been recorded . 
If you are looking for a bargain at an auction , make sure you know what you are doing . 
Go as a spectator first and see what happens . 
Furniture often has to be ordered and you may have to pay a deposit . 
Check that you know exactly how much you will have to pay for the goods when they arrive . 
Similarly , furniture produced by the manufacturers who subscribe to the code should be labeled with the Qualitas logo . 
If you have a complaint 
Direct your complaint to the trader who sold you the goods . 
Follow the suggested procedure for complaints on page 22 . 
Get quotations from three or four contractors and consider them carefully . 
Make sure they cover everything that you require . 
Do not agree to have work done simply because someone happens to knock on your door with an offer . 
If you are interested , ask for more information and give yourself time to get estimates from other traders to compare . 
This will , among other things , specify the intervals at which payments will be made . 
Contractors who are members of trade associations will usually publicise this and will be able to supply the addresses and telephone numbers . 
A consumer adviser , solicitor or other expert can provide independent advice on the merits of your case . 
Holidays can be expensive , so it is important to think about what you want before you book . 
A few simple precautions will help to ensure that you are not disappointed . 
Choose travel agents and tour operators which belong to a trade organization that has a code of practice . 
cancellation of , or cutting short your holiday ; 
illness or injury while you are away ; 
loss or theft of your belongings ; 
delayed or missed departures ; 
liability for accidents to others . 
If necessary ask for a complaint form , or put your complaint in writing in a separate letter . 
If things are not put right straight away , collect evidence about the problems such as photographs , statements from other holiday makers . 
Once you get home , check what your holiday brochure said . 
The pancreas does not secrete insulin to turn these foods into energy or to store them for future use . 
Too much sugar in the blood and urine is a sign of diabetes . 
Diabetes is a metabolic disease , i . 
It is an offence for operators to misdescribe what they offer you . 
ABTA provides an independent arbitration service and AITO an independent dispute settlement service which you can use if you wish . 
to promote open and competitive markets 
to encourage responsible businesses to follow good practice 
to avoid burdening those businesses with unnecessary regulation 
to protect the public from serious trading malpractice and unsafe products . 
Open and competitive markets 
They encourage innovation and ensure competitive prices . 
signposting sources of advice 
Neither party should incur heavy costs . 
What can I do to help ? 
Avoid taking your child on holiday at times when he or she should be taking exams or tests . 
You should not expect your child 's school to agree to a family holiday during term time . 
These dedicated people also need to understand that their is a job to be taken seriously . 
There 's never been a better time to work on Early Years , Childcare and Playwork . 
NB Please note that for all Early Years , Childcare and Playwork jobs you will need to undergo a police check . 
'' OUR NURSERY IS A VERY HOMELY PLACE , INFORMAL AND FRIENDLY , WHERE CHILDREN CAN BE HAPPY AND LEARN THROUGH PLAY . '' 
WHAT 'S IN IT FOR ME ? 
And that 's some responsibility . 
For information on training , see ' What experience and qualifications do I need ? ' 
IT 'S LIKE HAVING A SECOND FAMILY . '' 
WHAT EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS DO I NEED ? 
STILL NOT SURE ? 
take a look at the training and qualifications you 'll need 
touch on health and safety and relevant legislation . 
Ask your local Early Years Development and Childcare Partnership for more information . 
They can also offer guidance if you need it to help you choose which type of opportunity would be right for you . 
While in some instances , a simple urine test reveals the presence of glucose , it is important to carry out a blood test . 
What is a statement ? 
A statement will describe all your child 's SEN and the special help your child should receive . 
Part 1 gives your own and your child name and address , and your child 's date of birth , home language and religion . 
Part 2 gives details of all of your child 's SEN as identified in the statutory assessment . 
all the special help that the LEA think your child should get to meet the needs listed in part 2 
What happens once a statement has been prepared for your child ? 
Can you choose your child 's school ? 
Before they make the final statement , the LEA can arrange a meeting with you to discuss your wishes . 
You may also want to talk to other parents through local voluntary organizations and parents ' groups . 
You can ask for a meeting with the LEA to discuss the draft statement . 
After this meeting you have another 15 days to ask for more meetings with the LEA . 
part 2 , the description of your child 's SEN 
part 3 , the help to be given for your child 's SEN 
The LEA will have learned a great deal about your child 's needs as a result of the statutory assessment . 
Even if they decide not to make a statement , they should share what they have learned with you and your child 's school . 
The LEA may then draw up what is called a ' note in lieu of a statement ' . 
Less than 5 per cent belong to the secondary type of diabetes or the gray zoneimpairment of glucose tolerance . 
The LEA will decide whether a new assessment is needed in just the same way as when they first decided to assess your child . 
What happens if you move to another LEA area ? 
If you are going to move , you should let your child 's school and the LEA know . 
The new LEA must then make sure that your child gets all the special educational help set out in the statement . 
What if the tribunal needs more information ? 
The rules on sending in late evidence are the same for the LEA . 
What if I find it difficult to get hold of a document that is important to my case ? 
You may want to ask questions yourself . 
You will probably find it useful to make notes about the points you want to make and bring them with you to the hearing . 
Can I have a representative at the hearing ? 
You can send someone to the hearing to represent you whether or not you come yourself . 
If you do , you must put your representative 's name and address on the attendance form we send you . 
If you decide to send a representative after you have returned the attendance form , you should write separately to tell us so . 
Can my representative be a lawyer ? 
Witnesses will be able to give evidence on each point . 
Both you and the LEA will be able to ask them questions . 
Witnesses will normally stay for the whole hearing . 
The discussion at the tribunal hearing is not limited to the points the chairman raises . 
You will have the chance to add anything you feel is important but has not been mentioned . 
At the end you can bring up any which were left out . 
At the end of the hearing , the chairman will tell you that you will receive our decision by post . 
How long will the hearing last ? 
The hearing will normally last up to three hours , but there is usually a short break . 
We make our decision by considering all the evidence . 
This includes the documents you and the LEA send before the hearing and also what is said at the hearing . 
You have 28 calendar days from the date we issued the decision to appeal to the High Court . 
No extra blood will be taken . 
Testing left over blood will not affect the care or treatment given nor will it have any effect on your job or insurance . 
We hope you will help . 
Your wishes will be respected . 
Clinics are listed in telephone directories . 
The helpline operates 24 hours a day . 
This offers greater prospects of benefit in terms of quality of life . 
The likelihood of developing breast cancer increases with age . 
Report any changes without delay 
If you have any cause for concern about your breasts tell your doctor . 
How is this test done ? 
You will be asked to lie down on a couch after undressing your lower body . 
There may be slight inconvenience in some women . 
If you keep yourself relaxed you can minimize the inconvenience and pain . 
How will I get the result ? 
You should ask about the time of result ; they may send you a letter , or you can inquire by telephone . 
It may take a few days . 
It takes a variable duration of time for deterioration in kidney function . 
Cataracts and glaucoma are frequent among older people , but these problems may occur earlier and at higher rates among diabetics . 
Diabetes is one of the leading causes of loss of vision . 
Diabetes , is a metabolic problem , resulting in high levels of glucose circulating in the bloodstream . 
As well as giving you information health professionals must listen and do their best to answer your questions . 
Before your next appointment , you can write some down in the space below . 
What are the main treatment options ? 
What are the risks if I decide to do nothing for the time being ? 
How can I expect to feel after the procedure ? 
If you are at all worried then speak to your health visitor or doctor . 
The right sleeping position is only important until babies are able to roll themselves over in their sleep . 
Once they can do this it is safe to let them take whichever position they prefer . 
Babies should be kept warm , but they must not be allowed to get too warm . 
Keep the temperature in your baby 's room so that you fell comfortable in it . 
Use lightweight blankets which you can add to or take way according to the room temperature . 
Feverish babies should have few , even no blankets . 
Planning Your Care 
You should not be in hospital any longer than is medically necessary nor be sent home without proper arrangements being made . 
Your GP will be contacted on the day of your discharge or before . 
What It Will Cost At present most Manchester City Council social services are free . 
What is organ donation ? 
In others , it will allow blind people to see again . 
Or it will free patients from other form of long and painful treatment , such as spending hours a week on a kidney machine . 
What organs can be donated ? 
This means that one donor can help many other patients . 
Who will receive the organs ? 
The time of the death is the time of the second set of tests . 
The brain stem is the nerve tissue that makes up the lowest part of the brain and connects with the spinal cord . 
What happens after the tests ? 
Will all the organs be used ? 
All healthy organs are normally used . 
In most cases , organs can be used despite advanced age and previous illness . 
If you have suffered from certain illness , this could rule out the donation of some organs but not others . 
Will the organs be used for research ? 
No organs will be used for experimentation unless you have decided to leave your body to medical science and made the proper arrangements . 
Will my body be damaged by organ donation ? 
When any organs are removed , it is done by a skilled operating team . 
The body is treated with respect and dignity throughout . 
And once the operation is over , there will be no sign that any organs have been removed . 
Will the funeral be delayed ? 
Arrangements for the funeral can be made as in any case of death . 
The body can be viewed after the organs have been removed , and the funeral need not be delayed in any way . 
Once a patient has been certified as brain stem dead , the relatives will be asked to agree to organ donation . 
Strict confidentiality is maintained throughout the donation and transplantation process . 
Why are there different answers ? 
Different drugs have different effects on people ; som of these effects are more dangerous than others . 
Some drugs are more socially acceptable than others . 
Every child is different and the reasons why they might turn to drugs will be varied . 
Others may be tolerant of some drug use , or resigned to their children using drugs . 
There are different facilities for helping young people with drug problems in different parts of the country . 
So where you live may affect what help you can get if you need it . 
Do you know enough about drugs ? 
Also there are no standards of ' quality control ' for illegal drugs ; they may be adulterated with other substances to increase profits . 
By contrast , one LSD trip might result in psychological damage to somebody with latent mental illness . 
If your child wants to take drugs illegally , it is likely that they will eventually find somebody who can supply them . 
The efforts of the police and customs will never be able to completely stop illegal drugs coming into the country . 
Of those young people who try illegal drugs , most obtain them from friends . 
As a rule , experimentation with drugs such as cannabis and LSD does not start until mid late teens . 
Instead , they need to listen to their child 's own explanations to form a round view . 
The opportunity rose and the youngster just tried it . 
A discussion , a warning , and some monitoring of behavior may be appropriate . 
So while it is important to stress the risks , the information given must be factually accurate . 
Some youngsters will use drugs or solvents in an attempt to blot out exciting problems . 
For those few young people who are dependent on drugs a lot of careful work may be needed . 
If they can be helped with these problems then they will probably stop , or at least reduce , their drug intake . 
In the meantime , it is sensible to give advice on how to reduce damage to health . 
Then a spell of unemployment for Eddie led to heavy drinking and frequent family squabbles . 
Seeing his mother so upset made Joe angry . 
He blamed his stepfather , and said so . 
Next , a '' healing cap '' is placed when the implant is uncovered . 
Then , the healing cap is removed and a metal post , or abutment , may be attached to the anchor . 
Proper oral hygiene will help keep your implants and your mouth healthy . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Proper brushing helps minimize the risk of tooth decay and gum disease , the major causes of tooth loss . 
Instead artificial sweetners maybe used . 
Insulin type , dosage and frequency of administration should be worked out in consultation with the treating physician . 
Thereshould be regular monitoring of blood glucoseif one is on insulin therapy . 
Injected insulin needs to be carefully balanced with the meal plan . 
Division and spread of carbohydrates throughout the day . 
If one ` has not been very active , discuss exercise with the physician before setting out on one 's own . 
Types of exercise and how much is best for one will depend on one 's physical and metabolic status . 
Exercise Information for Persons with IDDM Benefits Can lower blood glucose levels during and after an exercise session . 
Increases physical fitness . 
Blood pressure during exercise may rise higher in persons with diabetes than in persons who do not have diabetes . 
Insulin deficiency with poor control of exercise can cause a further rise in blood glucose or even precipitate ketosis . 
Blood glucose can drop too low during or after exercise continued for long duration . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
It helps to limit the use of free sugar , fine starches , sweets or preserved jam , etc . 
COMPLICATIONS OF DIABETES Smoking and alcohol are aggravating risk factors in diabetes and in induction of vascular disease . 
Patient should go through an educational program and become completely aware of the natural history of diabetes and likely vascular complications . 
The plastic coating is painted on the grooved chewing surfaces of the back teeth . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Thanks to advances in modern dental materials and techniques , your dentist can help you attain the smile you 've always wanted . 
They can be placed instead of silver fillings or to replace existing silver fillings . 
Orthodontics correct crowded teeth , misaligned teeth and bite problems in children and adults . 
The brightness of your smile may be adversely affected by certain foods and beverages that can stain your teeth . 
CATTLE were domesticated at a very early stage of human civilization . 
They served through the ages as objects of worship and mythology . 
The excavations of Mohenjodaro and Harappa indicate the use of cattle in India as early as 5COMMA000 years ago . 
The buffalo , on an average , gives almost three times more milk than the cow . 
Buffalo milk is also richer than that of the cow and contains about 50 per cent more fat . 
It moves slowly but can draw very heavy loads over long distances . 
In India , cattle play a vital role in rural economy . 
Bullocks are still an important source of motive power in the agricultural operations although they are fast being replaced by machines . 
Milk is the major source of animal protein in the diet of a large number of people . 
Cattle replenish the fields by supplying manure and contribute hides and skins after death . 
Next to land , cattle are the peasant 's most precious possession . 
He uses his cattle for ploughing , harrowing , threshing , harvesting , lifting water and for transporting the produce to the market . 
The trend in recent years has shown that in India , for road transport , bullocks are gradually being replaced by mechanized means . 
' Haryana , Karnataka , Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are other significant milk producing states . 
India 's milk production is projected to increase by 50 per cent by the year 2000 . 
In Great Britain alone , there are 11 breeds which have been evolved to suit special requirements . 
These animals are fiery , active and are noted for their power of endurance . 
Bullocks are specially suited for trotting and quick transport . 
The barrel is long and well rounded . 
The navel flap is closely tucked up . 
The legs are medium in length and well proportioned . 
The hoofs are hard , black with narrow clefts . 
The tail is fine and of moderate length . 
These animals can thrive under poor conditions of feeding . 
The bullocks are good for work . 
The common color of this breed is gray . 
They are small , compact and attractive animals , fiery in disposition and very difficult to train . 
They are good in endurance and are noted for their speed . 
The bullocks are specially suited for working in rice fields . 
These animals have a light head with a long and narrow face . 
The tail is fine and short . 
The bullocks are strong and active , suitable for heavy plough and road transport . 
In Kangayams , the head is short and the forehead broad . 
The horns curve outwards , backwards and almost complete a circle at a point where they approach the tips . 
Calves are red in color at birth , which changes to white when they are about four months of age . 
Bullocks are fast , active and strong and are good for both plough and cart . 
These animals are mostly found in Sholapur , Miraj , Sangli , Belgaum , Satara and Dharwar districts . 
The bullocks are highly valued for their capability to work on the black cotton soil . 
These animals have horns upwards and outwards . 
The barrel is deep , legs short and muscular and tail thin , almost touching the hock . 
The bullocks are small but useful for drawing heavy plough and cart . 
The horns are thick , curving outwards and upwards then inwards and backwards . 
The barrel is long and deep . 
The tail is thin and long . 
The bullocks are big , powerful , active and are capable of heavy draught work in deep sands . 
They also trot well and are prized for fast road work . 
The bullocks are good for drawing both plough and cart . 
The horns are well apart , curving upwards and outwards in the same line as that of the poll . 
Nagpuri buffaloes are black in color with white patches on face , legs and the tip of the tail . 
This breed derives its name from the deep water of the Sutlej river . 
The usual color is black with white markings on forehead , face , muzzle , legs and switch . 
The buffaloes are economical producers of milk . 
Good specimens yield 2 , 500 to 2 COMMA700 kilograms in a lactation . 
The color is black or brown with scanty hair which are silvery or brown in color . 
Good specimens have two white collars , one round the jaw and the other at the brisket . 
It is the smallest of the dairy breeds and produces milk most economically . 
These cows straight top lines , level rumps , and sharp withers . 
Jerseys have excellent udders , both in shape and in fore and rear attachments . 
A cow comes into heat every 19 to 21 days . 
The duration of the heat period varies from 12 to 24 hours . 
The average gestation period in the cow is 280 days . 
The duration of the heat period is 18 to 36 hours . 
The average gestation period in the buffalo is 310 days . 
Great care should be taken in selecting the bull for breeding . 
The bull should be typical of the breed and should come from parents with high milk yield . 
Milk is an inherited character which the calf inherits from its dam and sire . 
The bull should , therefore , belong to a family where the females have given good yields . 
A bull should not be used for breeding purposes unless it attains proper maturity . 
She should be gentle and mild in temperament . 
It should be large and capacious , attached high up between the thighs , and extend far forward towards the navel . 
A good udder should be soft and pliable and should collapse after milking . 
The udder should be flat on the lower side and rounded behind . 
They should be cylindrical and evenly placed . 
There is a flow of transparent mucous from the genital opening , which shows signs of swelling and congestion . 
It is a mistake to assume that suckling calves do not require water because they are being fed largely on milk . 
A working bullock would need 32 litres of water daily . 
Idle cattle require about 22 litres a day . 
Regularity in feeding , grazing and milking nowhere pays better dividends than in the case of milch animals . 
Milking of Animals 
The young calf often butts while sucking milk from the bucket . 
Dehorning is commonly practised in milch cattle , especially in large dairy herds . 
Dehorned cattle are easier to handle than those with horns . 
Calves can be dehorned when one to two weeks old . 
Vaseline should be applied on the outer edges of the circles . 
After dehorning , the calf should be kept tied for a day or two , to avoid injury to the affected parts . 
When you follow a recommended home care routine and have regular professional care , you will be able to maintain healthier teeth and gums . 
What is plaque ? 
Plaque bacteria use sugar and other carbohydrates to grow and to form acids which attack tooth enamel and can cause cavities . 
Plaque that builds up along the gumline and between teeth in hard to reach places can be harmful . 
Recognizing gingivitis is important because it is reversible . 
The cut should be given on cords of both sides of the testicles . 
Tincture of iodine ` should be applied on the cuts to avoid infection . 
This exerts constant pressure . 
When the testicles have been absorbed , the ring drops down . 
The shoe should be made to fit the natural shape of the hoof . 
Animals with soft hoofs require shoeing more frequently than those with hard hoofs . 
A good draught bullock should have vigor . 
Animals that keep their head erect when standing and their tail high when at work , are generally considered more alert and brisk . 
The bullock should be of good size and height . 
The neck should be muscular and strong . 
The feet should be hard , black and waxy . 
The two halves should be even . 
The cleft of the hoof should be narrow . 
Determining the Age of Cattle 
The age of cattle can be determined from their teeth . 
Cattle have no front teeth on the upper jaw . 
A calf at birth has two temporary incisors or milk teeth in the lower jaw . 
At the age of two years , the permanent incisors start coming up . 
At about three years there are four permanent incisors . 
The direction of prevailing winds should be well sheltered . 
The building should not be expensive but should be comfortable and sanitary . 
Calves should be kept separately and should be brought to the cows only at the time of milking . 
The best material for the purpose is cement concrete which can be washed and cleaned every day . 
The drain should be wide enough to hold dung and urine , which can be removed at regular intervals . 
The straw will also absorb liquid excreta which can be easily removed along with cowdung , and dumped in a manure pit . 
The method of conserving cattle dung followed in the villages is to pile up the dung and other refuse in heaps on the ground . 
Urine , which is a very rich part of the manure , should also be properly conserved . 
Diseases take a heavy toll of the lives of cattle every year . 
Diseases also lower the productive efficiency of the animals and thus result in a great economic loss to the owner . 
Cattle in normal health appear bright , active and alert in their movements . 
They enjoy normal sleep and appetite . 
There is a discharge from the eyes , nostrils , and mouth . 
The animal is restless and frequently changes postures . 
Temperature can be observed by inserting an ordinary clinical thermometer in the anus of the animal . 
The pulse rate varies from 40 to 60 per minute . 
The pulse can be felt on the underside of the tail near its root . 
Respiration varies from 15 to 30 per minute . 
The pulse rate varies from 40 to 45 per minute . 
Respiration rate ranges from 16 to 18 per minute . 
Most of the contagious diseases in cattle can be prevented and controlled by timely vaccination and by observing suitable precautions . 
Important Diseases of Cattle 
Swellings may appear on different parts of the body , which are neither painful nor hot . 
Preventive measures consist in immediate segregation of healthy animals . 
The infected carcass and litter should be disposed of through burial or by burning . 
The course of the disease is rapid and the animal dies within a few days . 
Contaminated pastures should be put under cultivation . 
Infected carcass and litter should be disposed of through burial or by burning . 
In badly infected areas , the animals should be vaccinated before the onset of rains . 
The act of abortion is generally preceded by uneasiness , secretion of colostrum and other normal signs of parturition . 
The disease can be prevented by adopting proper sanitary measures and good management . 
The animals showing evidence of the disease should be immediately isolated . 
The mouth lesions and sores on the feet should be properly washed . 
To cut short the course of the outbreaks , the saliva from mildly affected animals may be applied to healthy ones . 
There is a painful , hot and hard swelling of the throat and adjacent tissues . 
The infected carcass and litter should be disposed of by deep burial with lime . 
In suspected herds , all the animals should be got tested with tuberculin . 
The calf should not be fed with milk from the infected mother . 
The infected carcass and litter should be properly disposed of . 
The animal is affected just before or after parturition within 72 hours of calving . 
Urination and passing of dung are temporarily stopped . 
The udder should be gently massaged to distribute the air throughout the udder . 
The first sign of regaining consciousness is the dropping of dung and urination . 
The affected animal should not be milked for 12 hours after she has regained consciousness . 
The udder should not be completely emptied while milking for two or three days . 
The Karanah rams have big curved horns , long face , and a prominent nose . 
These sheep are reared by a class of shepherds called Bhakarwal . 
The wool from these sheep is long , and is generally found mixed with coarser staple . 
The average annual wool yield per sheep is about 1.5 kilograms . 
The rams of this breed possess horns , but the ewes are hornless . 
How to get the most from your home care routine . 
Proper brushing helps remove plaque from the outer , inner , and chewing surfaces of your teeth . 
Crest Tartar Protection is clinically proven safe for dental enamel and gums . 
For Better Results , Brush and Floss Properly 
The ewes yield appreciable quantities of milk . 
These sheep have graceful upright carriage . 
They are big in size and have specially long ears . 
These sheep yield superior carpet wool . 
The average annual yield per sheep is about 1.5 kilograms . 
They are of medium size and have a compact body . 
Marwari sheep yield one to two kilograms of coarse , white wool . 
The average annual clip is about one kilogram . 
It is bred in Bandur village of Mandya district . 
In recent years , a few exotic breeds of sheep have been introduced in India for the upgrading of indigenous sheep . 
Merino rams of Australian and German origins and Rambouillet rams have been used in large numbers . 
These have given encouraging results in improving the quality of indigenous stock . 
Merinos are extremely hardy and the ewes live and produce longer than most of the other breeds . 
The brisket should be wide and fleshy . 
A good ewe should be uniform in its body structure . 
For wool breeds , the ram should have a dense fleece of good quality . 
The lambs which have more of hair than wool should be rejected . 
Coarse , thick and chalky hair on the face and limbs indicate a hairy coat . 
Glossy , close , thin and transparent hair on the face and legs is a sign of good fleece . 
The space between the horns or on the top of the head should be free from stiff hair . 
For mutton quality , lambs born early in the season should be selected , as they grow bigger than those born later . 
Those lambs which attain good weight at the age of four to five months , yield more profits . 
The mutton from lambs at weaning age is of best quality . 
Young rams should never be allowed to serve more than 40 ewes during the breeding season . 
Ewes mature when about two years old . 
They should not be bred earlier . 
Twinning should be encouraged only when the flock can be provided with extra fodder and grain ration . 
Begin by brushing the outside of the front teeth . 
In summer , sheep should be grazed on land where there is a hardy grass like dub or kunda . 
Stud rams would need 250 to 500 grams of concentrate ration daily during the breeding season . 
Fresh , clean water is essential for sheep to maintain good health . 
Unless forced to drink from stagnant pools , sheep will prefer flowing rivulets as the source of drinking water . 
Most of the major ailments of sheep ` are caused by dirty stagnant water . 
They instinctively follow the leader . 
This habit is taken advantage of in herding them on fields and pastures . 
Sheep unlike cattle and horses are generally reared in larger groups under natural conditions for the greater part of the year . 
Individual care in the case of sheep is neither economical nor feasible . 
Sheep love to live as natural a life as possible . 
They do not need any special facilities . 
They should , however , be provided protection during nights from wild animals and inclement weather . 
A floor space of one to two square metres per sheep should be provided . 
Shearing of Wool 
Fleece provides natural protection for sheep against inclement weather . 
Shearing should , therefore , be done when the weather is neither too cold nor too hot . 
Sheep are , generally , shorn either at the end of the rainy season or in the beginning of summer . 
In many places , the flocks are shorn twice a year . 
They should , however , be perfectly dry before starting shearing . 
Thereafter the approximate age can be determined from the degree of wearing and discolouration of the teeth . 
Common Diseases of Sheep 
Most of the infectious diseases in sheep are caused as a result of poor management practices . 
The use of proper sprays , dips or dust are essential for the control of external parasites . 
Internal parasites can be controlled through proper pasture management and by keeping the sheep under hygienic conditions . 
The goats are combed for eight to ten days and the undercoat collected , leaving the long silky hair to be clipped later . 
These breeds are well built , sturdy and able to walk long distances . 
The horns are pointed at the apex , bending upwards and backwards . 
They have a coarse long hairy coat . 
The color is mainly are also met with . 
Their meat is coarse and devoid of fat . 
Large herds of these goats are found in the Changthang area at elevations of 12 , 000 to 14 COMMA000 feet . 
The ears are long and pendulous . 
The coarse hair covers the major portion of the face . 
The longer and finer pashmina is grown on the sides and shoulders . 
The majority of goats are white in color are not uncommon . 
In hills , these goats are used for transport , particularly at higher altitudes . 
They have horns , wide , pendulous ears . 
They have a pronounced Roman nose . 
It resembles the Jamnapari breed but is smaller in size . 
These goats are prolific . 
They give appreciable quantities of milk . 
Beetal goats have long , pendulous , flat ears and a Roman nose like that of Jamnapari . 
The horns are curved with a tendency to grow outward . 
They are popular for their meat . 
The neck is heavy , the ears are flabby , the horns are twisted and pointed . 
The tail is curved upwards with a tuft of raised hair . 
The hair of the body are jet black and lustrous . 
These goats are large in size . 
They are considered useful both for milk and meat . 
They have long horns and the common color is black , although a mixture of white and black or red is also met with . 
These goats are very prolific . 
Barbari goats have slender , small and erect ears . 
They have a very fine coat of short and silky hair . 
They are not bred to any standard color and are generally spotted with fawn , red , tan or black spots . 
These goats have an attractive appearance . 
The head is of medium size with a flat and sometimes Roman nose . 
The ears are long . 
There is a class of these goats which has no horns . 
Bengal goats are very small in size . 
The body is deep , the back is straight and the shoulders and hip are of equal height . 
The chest is wide and the legs are short . 
The ears are nearly upright . 
These animals have a dark black color . 
The skin is of very superior quality and is in great demand both in India and abroad . 
Selection of Milch Goats 
The neck should be long and slim . 
The udder should be long , extending below between the thighs and carried forward along the belly . 
The udder should have a soft and spongy texture . 
It should collapse and reduce greatly in size after milking . 
Teats should be of medium size , uniform and sloping slightly forward and not outward . 
It should have a large , long and deep body . 
The legs should be straight and the feet strong . 
A sire , whose dam is a poor milker , should not be used as a stud for milch goats . 
Goats have a tendency to mature at an early age . 
Therefore , the two sexes should be kept separate from the age of two or three months . 
The male is considered at his best for stud purposes , when two to three years of age . 
But it can be used as early as 12 months of age on a limited number of goats . 
A good male keeps fit for breeding till about ten years of age . 
The general signs of heat in goats are like those in cows and buffaloes . 
The doe in heat becomes very restless , , shakes its tail , keeps bleating in a peculiar way and goes off her feed . 
The heat period in goats lasts from one to three days in summer . 
A few days before parturition , the udder begins to enlarge and mammary glands show signs of activity . 
Sometimes , heavy milkers have to be milked several times before the kid is born . 
The goat gives birth while lying down . 
In normal delivery , the whole thing is completed in about 45 minutes . 
The thin membrane covering the nose and mouth of the kid should be wiped off with a clean cloth . 
The navel of the kid should be disinfected properly . 
Care should be taken that milk from both the teats is drawn evenly and completely . 
The kids are generally weaned at the age of about three months . 
It is considered a more hygienic and better method of rearing kids . 
Weaned kids can be fed milk from a bottle like human babies . 
As compared to the milk of other animals , goat 's '' milk approaches nearest to human milk in fat percentage and proteins . 
Its sugar content is slightly less and ash content more than in human milk . 
Your gum separates from the tooth and the bone level deteriorates . 
Your dentist will examine you for periodontal disease during each routine checkup . 
Treatment will depend upon the type of periodontal disease and how far the condition has progressed . 
Oral Irrigation directs liquid below the gumline to flush out toxins and germs to help restore the gums to health . 
If deep pockets are found and bone has been destroyed , your dentist may recommend periodontal surgery . 
Many people have a prejudice against goat 's milk due to its peculiar flavor . 
This can , however , be easily overcome if the goats are kept under clean and hygienic conditions away from the buck . 
They especially relish leaves , twigs , and tender buds of mulberry , neem , her , babul , and tamarind . 
Different varieties of feeds during the day suit the nature of the goats . 
No hard and fast rule can be laid down as to the quantity of fodder that may be fed to a goat . 
A part of it may be substituted with dry fodder such as dry leaves or the hay of leguminous forage crops . 
Pregnant goats should be given about 225 grams of grain ration daily during the last two months of pregnancy . 
Stud bucks should be given daily 500 grams of grain mixture during the breeding season . 
Minerals constitute an essential part of the goat 's ration . 
The most important minerals required for feeding goats are calcium and phosphorus . 
These can be made available to goats by including bonemeal in their feed . 
Goats , by nature , are not heavy drinkers of water . 
Many goats hardly ever drink water , if they have plenty of green feed . 
Goats love to drink water from a running stream . 
They , however , should be protected against bad weather , wild animals and pests . 
The place should be always kept properly drained . 
The kids should be kept in warm houses , especially in chilly weather . 
Castration also improves the quality of meat . 
Before milking , the milker should wash his hands properly and the udder and teats should be wiped with a clean damp cloth . 
The milk vessels should be clean and properly washed . 
The milking place should always be kept clean and dry . 
A goat should be groomed every day with a soft brush . 
It keeps the animal clean and imparts a glossy appearance to its coat . 
Bucks of those breeds which have long hair are generally trimmed . 
This helps to keep them clean . 
When goats are confined to stalls , their feet require special attention . 
The hoofs should be trimmed down carefully at least once a month to the level of the sole by means of a hoof clipper . 
Common Diseases of Goats 
Unlike other domestic animals , goats are comparatively less prone to serious diseases . 
The average pulse rate varies from 68 to 90 and respiration from 20 to 30 per minute . 
The preventive measures include vaccination against the disease , ploughing up of the infected pastures and leaving them open for about two months . 
Their milk should not be used for human consumption . 
Preventive measures comprise segregation of affected animals and vaccination against the disease . 
Under the prevailing conditions of management , the country pigs are mostly neglected . 
They do not get a fair chance to grow into economical animals . 
In India , there were 7.6 million pigs in 1977 . 
This has given very encouraging results with the minimum outlay . 
The weight of mature boars is about 300 to 400 kilograms , while the average sow weighs from 220 to 320 kilograms . 
This breed has been found more suitable to thrive under Indian village conditions as compared to other exotic breeds . 
This breed is white in color , the neck is full to shoulders , which are wide . 
Boars of this breed , when fully grown , weigh about 250 to 350 kilograms . 
The weight of an average sow varies from 175 to 275 kilograms . 
It is valued as a producer of meat , especially suitable for the pork market . 
Berkshire breed is black in color with white markings usually on the feet , head and tail . 
It has short head with dished face . 
Chester White , Duroc , and Hampshire breeds are popular in America . 
Selection and Management of Breeding Boars 
The breeding boar , being the most important member of the herd , should be selected with care . 
A good breeding boar should be masculine in appearance . 
The body should be of good length and the shoulder should not be too heavy . 
The boar should not be allowed to run with the sows . 
When the sows come into season , the boar should be allowed to serve them once . 
Repeated failures in service may lead to the boar 's complete refusal to serve even when the sow is fully on heat . 
Makes and fits a temporary or transitional crown of plastic or metal . 
Cements the crown into place . 
Few incidents have greater impact on dental health and personal appearance than tooth loss . 
When tooth loss occurs , your dentist may recommend the placement of a bridge . 
A bridge is one or more replacement teeth anchored by one or more crowns on each side . 
Initially , the dentist prepares teeth on each side of the space to receive crowns and makes an impression of the entire area . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
The breeding sows should be selected when young from a mother known to rear consistently large litters of uniform piglets of high weaning weights . 
She should have proper mammary development with twelve to fourteen teats evenly distributed on the two sides of the belly . 
Two litters may be obtained in a year under proper conditions of feeding and management . 
During pregnancy , it is essential to give the sow regular exercise . 
The sow should be maintained on a light diet for the first three days after farrowing . 
Thereafter she should be given normal feed as her appetite improves . 
The ration may be given moist or in the form of a thick slop . 
There should always be an ample supply of clean drinking water . 
The most critical period in the life of a pig is its first three days . 
A sow , when fed a good ration , may produce from three to four kilograms of milk per day . 
Its milk is richer than that of the cow , especially in proteins and minerals . 
The sow must receive feeds containing these nutrients in sufficient amounts to produce the milk required by the litter . 
The practical way to check this is to see that the feeding troughs are cleaned up in reasonable time after each feed . 
Mature pigs need more of starchy food for energy and to put on fat . 
Depending upon the season and the nature of feeds , sufficient fresh water should be made available . 
The required quantity of mineral mixture can also be added to the green ration . 
A few days before weaning , the diet of the young pigs should be increased gradually . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
The Importance of Regular Visits 
Regular dental visits are essential to maintaining healthy teeth and gums . 
For maximum benefit , a good home care regimen must be supplemented with an examination at least every six months . 
Teeth & gums immediately after dental cleaning . 
Special attention is needed in the feeding of breeding boars to get the maximum service . 
In addition to the usual ration , stud boar should get an ample supplement of mineral mixture . 
Grains should always be crushed and soaked for a few hours before feeding to ensure proper digestion . 
It is highly desirable to provide some green feed throughout the year . 
Hay from some suitable legume should also be given . 
As a class , horses , mules and donkeys are first cousins . 
At present , there are no less than 60 different domesticated breeds of horses in the world . 
Horse is proverbially known for its robust common sense . 
Since time immemorial , horses have served man both for work and for sport . 
Horse is a useful animal specially suitable for quick and easy transport . 
It provides a cheaper form of transport for carrying short distances . 
Most of the Indian breeds are well adapted for the specialised type of work they are required to perform . 
The most important breeds of Indian horses are Kathiawari , Marwari , Bhutia , Manipuri and Spiti . 
The head of the Kathiawari is like that of the Arab horse . 
Checking your teeth for decay is only a small part of a thorough oral exam . 
Your dentist or hygienist will clean your teeth and encourage you to maintain good oral hygiene . 
The Regular Dental Visit 
HEAD & NECK EXAMINATION 
Mobility of Teeth 
The prevailing colors are chestnut , brown and gray . 
Kathiawari horses look elegant , shapely and majestic . 
They are hardy animals , with good bone and easy action . 
Marwari horses are majestic , noble and handsome . 
They are noted for ease of pace , speed and endurance . 
These animals are very popular in the hilly areas for riding as well as for pack purposes . 
Though small in size , these animals possess a proportionate body . 
Legs are of fine quality , knees and hocks strong , the pastern has a gradual and proportionate slope . 
They are in great demand for polo , racing and for military transport . 
Arab is considered art ideal breed for riding purposes and for carrying weight . 
More recently a few animals of Connemara breed have been imported in hp and are being used for improving the hill ponies . 
Horses , as compared to other domestic animals , have a lower reproductive rate . 
They are more difficult to breed and have a longer gestation period . 
For a breeding farm , 70 per cent is considered a good average . 
The oestral cycle in mares averages 21 days . 
The duration of heat varies from seven to nine days . 
The genital organs of the stallion should be washed properly after each service . 
A mare carries her young for 340 days . 
After the mares have been served , they continue to work as usual till they are almost half way through their pregnancy period . 
For the last four or five months of pregnancy , however , the mare should not be allowed to work for long hours . 
The udder of the pregnant mare enlarges during the eleventh month . 
A week or ten days before the foal is expected , the mare should be put in a roomy box . 
Just before foaling , the mare is restless , paws the bedding , sweats a little and frequently lies down . 
A normal foal will be on its legs in ten minutes to an hour after birth . 
The foal should begin to suck milk from its mother immediately as it is able to rise . 
A mare 's milk contains 9.42 per cent solids . 
Its fat and protein contents are very low as compared to the milk from cow or goat . 
The horse is a herbivorous animal , but does not ruminate like a cow or camel . 
Unlike ruminants , that have four large compartments of the stomach , the horse has just one stomach like that of man . 
The horse , therefore , needs to be fed oftener but in smaller quantities . 
Chopped hay , however , can be given along with the grain . 
A horse should not be put to hard work after full feed , nor a full feed should be given to an exhausted horse . 
This is a very common cause of digestive troubles in horses . 
Changes in ration should be made gradually , as a sudden change may cause colic , which may prove fatal in horses . 
It is best to give water before feeding . 
The horse should never be fed stale , mouldy or inferior stuffs . 
Oats have sufficient protein content to make a balanced ration when fed along with grass hays . 
Wheat bran is palatable and laxative , and may be substituted for a large part of the oats in the ration . 
Bran is rich in phosphorus but deficient in calcium . 
Bran is generally fed dry but may be fed as a mash prepared with hot water . 
Salt and minerals are essential to keep horses healthy , especially for pregnant and nursing mares . 
Iodized salt should be added in iodine deficient areas . 
When green grass is available , half a kilogram of hay may be substituted by 1.5 kilograms of green grass . 
Horses should be supplied with plenty of fresh water at regular hours . 
They should not be supplied with water immediately before and after being put to work . 
A horse , on an average , drinks 45 to 55 litres of water in a day . 
Horses feel greatly encouraged when affectionately patted . 
Vigorous exercise helps to maintain hard physical condition and health of a horse . 
When starting the day 's work , the horses should be gradually warmed to their task , before being put to extreme exertion . 
Horses need regular and vigorous grooming to keep them healthy . 
Proper grooming keeps the horse clean and helps in imparting a glossy and shining coat to the skin . 
Massaging stimulates blood circulation and improves the condition and general appearance of the animal . 
It also provides a sort of passive exercise . 
The first pair of incisor milk teeth appear before the foal is two weeks old . 
The second pair comes at four to eight weeks of age and the third corner pair appear in six to nine months . 
The permanent central incisors start erupting after about two and a half years . 
At this age the horse is said to have a full mouth . 
As a horse gets older , its teeth start wearing . 
By the time a horse reaches an age of 10 to 12 years , the cups in all the incisor teeth disappear . 
The optimum time to serve the animal is on the third day of heat . 
The animal can be bred after parturition after six to eight weeks . 
The lactation period ranges from 6 to 12 months . 
The young one is generally weaned at the age of six months . 
The milk of an ass is easy fo digest . 
Donkeys usually move at a pace of three to five kilometres per hour and can cover about 25 to 32 kilometres in a day . 
The present number of mules in India is , however , very small . 
To keep mules in good working condition , they need constant care and attention . 
The same general rules of feeding and stable management are applicable to them as to the horses . 
They , however , can thrive on poor fodder and are less susceptible to diseases . 
This system provides nourishment for the cells within the tooth . 
Deep tooth decay or other injury can cause damage to or infection of the tooth pulp . 
Spontaneous pain or throbbing while biting . 
Sensitivity to hot and cold foods . 
Step 1 After the tooth is anesthetized , an opening is made through the crown into the pulp chamber . 
The length of the root canals is determined . 
A metal post may be added for structural support or to retain restorative materials . 
The temperature in a horse , can be taken with an ordinary clinical thermometer inserted in the rectum for three minutes . 
The normal pulse rate of the horse at rest varies from 36 to 40 per minute . 
In a healthy horse , breathing will subside to normal more quickly than his pulse rate after exercise is stopped . 
The breathing rate may be observed by watching the movements of the flank or the nostrils . 
In a healthy horse , the bowels are moved frequently , about eight to ten times in 24 hours . 
The droppings are usually in the form of balls that are soft enough to split as they fall on the ground . 
The urine is passed several times daily and is light yellow in color . 
Stiffness appears in different parts of the body . 
Tail is kept raised and quivering . 
Cold patchy swellings develop all over the body . 
The animal lies down , rolls , gets up again , looks frequently towards flanks and kicks forward at the abdomen . 
Faeces may be passed in small quantities . 
Camel can close his nostrils during sandstorms . 
Camel possesses extraordinary patience even under conditions of neglect and rough handling . 
In Baluchistan , sometimes a woman and a camel may be seen dragging a plough together . 
Camel has earned a special reputation for military transport work . 
Camel is said to do everything for its master except cook his food . 
The long hair from the tail is woven into cords and ropes which are noted for their strength and durability . 
Camel hide is used for saddlery . 
The tooth is sealed with a temporary filling . 
Usually a gold or porcelain crown adds further protection . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Pain from sensitive teeth is not always constant ; it can come and go . 
Constant pain could be a sign of a more serious problem . 
Indian Breeds of Camels 
The camels in India are described as Plain camels and Hill camels , according to the region in which they are bred . 
The Hill camel and the Riverine camel are the bagggage type , whereas the Desert camel is a riding type of animal . 
It has small eyes , short ears , thin skins and small feet . 
The Hill camel is a compact and muscular animal . 
The legs are short and the feet are round and hard . 
The sexual instincts of the male are suppressed for most of the year . 
The actual duration of the rut depends largely on the condition of the animal . 
When a number of male camels are kept together , only one or two of the strongest become markedly Musth . 
The others , out of fear of their stronger companion , do not show any outward sign . 
The camel generally stands with hind legs apart , flapping the tail up and down and may even emit semen . 
The males should be kept separate from the females during the rutting season . 
When a camel is at heavy work and sufficient grazing is not available , it is necessary to feed grain ration . 
Gram is considered to be the best feed . 
Grains should be given crushed , but if that is not possible they may be soaked in water for sometime before feeding . 
Grains should preferably be fed in the , evenings . 
They should not be fed on an empty stomach or soon after quenching a long thirst . 
Salt is essential for keeping the camel healthy . 
It may be given mixed with daily grain ration or alone . 
The maximum load in the army is , however , limited to 1.8 quintals . 
The distance which may be covered during a day depends on the nature of the road , the pace , and the nourishment available . 
An average distance for a day 's march is 19 to 24 kilometres . 
Camels on the march should be allowed one day 's rest in a week . 
The best time for marching camels is at night or in the early hours of the morning . 
The act of urination in the male camel takes considerable time . 
Great care is necessary in properly loading a baggage camel . 
The load should be equally divided and balanced on both sides of the hump . 
The saddle or palan should be squarely and evenly adjusted . 
The best age to break a camel for riding is three years . 
Pace must be practised at an early age . 
While riding , the camel should never be struck on the neck . 
The proper place to tickle a camel is just behind the right leg of the rider . 
The tail of a riding camel should be tied to one side by a thin rope fastened to the saddle . 
After this , it should be allowed sufficient rest . 
Seasonal Clipping of Hair 
In areas where camels grow a long coat , camel hair is considered valuable for a variety of uses . 
The finest hair is obtained from the young camel or from an animal in a wild state . 
Care should be taken to shear as close to the skin as possible and without injuring the animal . 
In working camels , the seat of the saddle should be left undipped as a preventive against galls . 
The clipped animals should be covered with a blanket in case the nights are cold . 
It is a very desirable practice , especially when the winter coat is heavy . 
Determining the Age of a Camel 
It is much easier to age a camel than a horse by looking at its teeth . 
In a camel , from 8 to 12 days after birth , two central temporary incisors appear . 
These start wearing at four years of age , and the temporary incisors are nothing but stumps . 
After the camel is nine years old , the age is determined by the wearing of the tushes and the shape of incisors . 
A fluoride rinse or gel for sensitive teeth , recommended by your dentist . 
A sensitivity protection toothpaste usually takes several weeks to ease pain . 
Follow the instructions of your dental professional on the regular use of sensitivity protection toothpaste to keep pain from returning . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
We appreciate the value you place on your oral health . 
If any friends or family members are in search of quality dental care , please tell them about us . 
We welcome new patients and we thank you for your patronage . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
After the camel is about twelve years old , the long hair bordering the tail become gray . 
The skull is more massive in the old camels than those in middle age . 
Camels , like horses , may live to the age of 40 years or more . 
In females the yield of milk is greatly diminished . 
The sick animal prefers to stand facing the sun . 
It rises considerably from dawn to sunset . 
The temperature in camels is taken inside the rectum when the camel is in the sitting position . 
An ordinary clinical thermometer is used for the purpose . 
The normal frequency of respiration in healthy camels at rest is variable from five to twelve per minute . 
In cold weather it is less and does not go beyond eight . 
In the acute form , the disease runs a rapid course and the animal dies in a few months . 
In the chronic form the disease is of long duration and may last three to four years . 
The animal gradually becomes more and more emaciated , till it finally becomes nothing but skin and bones and the hump disappears . 
The camel sits down and is unable to rise . 
Death happens within a few hours . 
The disease is characterised by its rapid course and it may be suspected when sudden deaths occur in animals . 
The carcass and the gear of the affected animal should be burnt and the place thoroughly disinfected . 
The symptoms in the camel may develop from a few days to two months after being bitten by a rabid animal . 
A rabid camel is a great danger to man and beast . 
The affected animals should be segregated and separate attendants should look after them . 
Gear used for sick animals should be thoroughly disinfected . 
ELEPHANT is the largest and most majestic of all animals tamed by man . 
The elephant inhabits the forest districts of India , Sri Lanka and Burma . 
It is also found in Malay Peninsula , Thailand , and Cochin China , as well as in the islands of Sumatra and Borneo . 
Rough estimates indicate that there are about 7COMMA000 wild elephants , of which about 3COMMA000 are believed to be in South India alone . 
The elephants have long been captured for domestic uses in India . 
In the past , they were mainly used as beasts of burden and for military purposes . 
In the wild state , the elephant has always been a great attraction for the hunters of big game . 
The neck being short , does not permit the head to run sideways sufficiently to see objects at the rear . 
An elephant , when about to charge , also gives vent to a shrill trumpet . 
The tusks arise from the upper jaw , and grow throughout the entire life of the animal . 
These are formidable weapons of offence . 
They can be brought into use at almost any angle . 
They can . 
The longest specimen of tusk recorded is 2.6 metres and the highest weight as 46 
Unlike horses , the only pace of the elephant is a walk . 
A ditch about two metres wide and 1.8 metres deep is impassable for him . 
Elephants attain a much longer age in the wild state than in captivity . 
Sometimes , extremely exaggerated ages are attributed to elephants . 
The average age of a circus elephant is about 35 years . 
In young elephants , sometimes up to the age of eight or nine years , the edge is quite straight . 
Teeth also afford some rough evidence as to the age . 
Extravagant estimates of the height of elephants have , from time to time , been recorded . 
Roughly speaking , about 2.7 metres should be considered good height for large males , and 2.4 metres for females . 
The average height of the circus elephant is 2.2 metres . 
The average circus elephant weighs 2COMMA720 kilograms , ranging from 1 , 040 to 4 COMMA170 kilograms . 
There is a general impression that the body of the elephant is incessantly active . 
The tail is even more active . 
It lies down for relatively a short time only during the night and almost never during the day , except when unusually tired . 
It is widely believed that the elephants rarely sleep and if at all , for only a short time . 
Elephants are valued according to their age and training . 
How common are temporomandibular diseases and disorders ? 
What are the most common signs and symptoms ? 
Pain is either episodic or persistent . 
Symptoms can occur on one or both sides of the face and may include other body pain . 
Most people have relatively mild symptoms , but a sizable minority goes on to develop persistent pain and severe limitation in jaw motion . 
These symptoms can lead to diet restrictions , major disruptions in ability to work and engage in normal social and family life . 
It is sometimes described as an instinctive desire in the male elephants to fight and even kill before mating . 
The elephant should be chained up and fed very cautiously . 
Both the males and females have these glands . 
The congress in elephants does not differ much from that of the other domestic quadrupeds . 
The actual copulation lasts only a short time , about one minute or so . 
The average gestation period in the female is about 20 months , ranging from 18 to 22 months . 
Twins among elephants are very uncommon . 
Considerable enlargement of the mammary glands may be noticed in a pregnant female . 
She doubles up assuming the posture of a defecating dog , with the trunk between forelegs and weight on hind legs . 
The calf is covered with fur all over the body . 
In human beings , the weight of the infants is approximately six or seven per cent of the mother 's weight . 
In the case of cows , it is little under eight per cent . 
The young one suckles with its mouth . 
It soon becomes playful and active . 
The calf suckles the dam for about two to three years . 
In captivity , the calves are usually weaned at the age of about one and a half years . 
Composition of Elephant Milk 
Milk of the elephant possesses a characteristic taste and odour . 
Do we know what causes TM problems ? 
What should I do if I experience symptoms ? 
Any lasting pain and or dysfunction should be properly diagnosed . 
It is important to rule out tumors , neurological problems , and other medical conditions that may be causing the jaw symptoms . 
If in doubt , seek an independent second opinion . 
Jaw sounds and a limited mouth opening without pain are not indicative of a current or potential TMJ problem . 
Elephants should be allowed to feed at all times except when at work . 
Before and after work are no doubt the most appropriate times for supplying fresh fodder . 
Circus animals are fed five or more times a day . 
The best time to feed concentrate ration is after the ordinary fodder has been consumed . 
The elephant sucks up water with its trunk and then pours it into the throat . 
A little neglect may cause loss of a valuable animal . 
The amount of work which may be expected from an elephant must necessarily depend upon individual constitution and the type of work . 
Wherever possible , special dragging carts may be employed to save them from unnecessary exertion . 
The elephant is constitutionally a beast of burden . 
During the rains , the legs should be examined for leeches . 
To keep an animal waiting for his fodder on coming off work is a very undesirable practice . 
When elephants are idle , it is essential that they have daily exercise . 
In some cases , the daily journey for fodder will suffice . 
Elephants need artificial shelter only where good natural shelter is not available . 
The best shelter is a grove of evergreen trees with a good drainage . 
For elephants working in yards , sheds are necessary . 
The elephant should face with head uphill , otherwise if they lie down they might experience great difficulty in rising . 
Whenever there is any indication of illness , the animal should be given sufficient rest . 
During the hot season , a cool and shady place should be provided . 
During rainy season , the animal should be protected from getting wet and exposed to cold winds . 
All grain ration should be withheld . 
Coarse and dry fodder should be avoided . 
Water should be provided in sufficient quantities and the elephant should not be moved over a long distance for watering . 
Cominon Diseases of Elephants 
It is an acute and highly infectious disease . 
The sick animals should be isolated and the premises should be thoroughly disinfected . 
The ancient man was attracted to it both for food and sport . 
Poultry includes several kinds of birds , such as chicken , ducks , geese , turkeys , and guinea fowls . 
In India , of all these birds , the chicken or the domestic fowl is the most important . 
It provides a ready source of income to the cultivator . 
Besides meat and eggs , poultry supplies feathers and rich manure . 
The eggs and the poultry meat are one of the richest sources of proteins and vitamins . 
The average Indian diet is extremely deficient in both of these . 
Poultry , therefore , offers the most economical and quickest means of increasing the production of high quality protein food in the country . 
Present Position of Poultry in India 
In India , there were 115.45 million poultry birds , including ducks and others , in 1966 . 
FAO estimates for 1991 show India 's chicken population at 380 million out of a , world population of 11COMMA034 million . 
This showed an increase of 29.1 per cent over that of 1977 . 
The standard weight is nearly 4.5 kilograms in cocks and 3.5 kilograms in hens . 
There is no standard plumage colouration but the golden and light yellow are most popular . 
Earlobes and wattles are small and red in color . 
The neck is long and the body is relatively short for its height . 
The shanks are yellow in color and devoid of feathers . 
The plumage is sparse at the breast bone . 
The hen is a fair layer . 
The throat is loose and baggy . 
The legs are rather long , straight and strong . 
These breeds are being widely used to upgrade the desi fowl . 
On the other hand , hens lacking in these desirable characters will cause disappointment . 
Poor layers utilize most of their feed for purposes of maintaining the body . 
If it is intended to produce birds for poultry meat industry , the selection should be limited to fast growing chickens . 
For commercial success , the most safe and economical course is to keep only one or at the most two selected breeds . 
Specialization in a few breeds is better than to keep a large variety of breeds . 
In managed flock , both the operations , selection and culling , are equally important . 
In the villages , this system is considered most convenient . 
They can also have easy access to grasses and insects which are their natural food . 
A fowl has no sweat glands to regulate its body temperature . 
A shed of suitable size should be provided in the yard . 
Controversy exists over whether TMJ is a dental or medical condition . 
Presently , diagnostic criteria as well as many treatments lack scientific validation . 
What research needs to be done on '' TMJ '' ? 
Details of the workshop and extensive information on TMJ can be found at the groups Web site , www . 
Often times , wisdom teeth become trapped or impacted in the jawbone , or simply fail to erupt . 
The litter should be started at least two months before the onset of rain and never during the wet weather . 
The litter should never be allowed to get wet . 
Keeping the litter dry is essential for the success of the whole system . 
Minimum floor space required per bird of light breeds is 28 square decimetres for a flock of 100 birds . 
In the case of heavy breeds , the floor space should be 32 square decimetres per bird . 
This tray is supported on the frame . 
The water troughs ' and mash hoppers can be provided one each for a cage or one for three to four cages collectively . 
Each cage should have an height of 45 centimetres , width 45 centimetres , and length 35__to__40 centimetres . 
The water trough , mash hopper , the floor , and dropping tray should be removable to enable thorough cleaning frequently . 
Like incubation of eggs , the chicks may be reared under a hen or artificially under a brooder , commonly called foster mother . 
Brooding period is from a day old to eight weeks and is by far the most delicate part of the chicken 's life . 
In artificial brooding , a special type of equipment called brooder is used . 
In nature , the mother hen supplies the heat to the chicks by means of her own body and feathers . 
At about eight weeks , the comb and wattles in males are well developed , whereas in females they are much less conspicuous . 
A considerable amount of training and experience is , however , necessary before one can practise this method with some degree of accuracy . 
It is , therefore , advisable to dispose of the hens each year and start with a new batch of pullets . 
Light stimulates birds to eat more feed and to lay more eggs . 
The flavor of eggs depends to some extent on the nature of the feed . 
Green foods and yellow maize tend to give good colored yolk . 
The yolk contains about 16 per cent protein and the white about 10 per cent protein of their own weights . 
When the whole egg is consumed , the individual proteins supplement one another very satisfactorily . 
Young chicks get into the habit of pecking at toes , combs , vents and feathers of other birds . 
This vice is more common in the birds which are kept under conditions of overcrowding , unbalanced diet and lack of exercise . 
Birds should be regularly examined for internal worms and external parasites . 
Mortality rate is very high . 
The affected birds huddle together in a corner . 
The premises should be kept clean and sanitary . 
A duck lays 30 to 40 eggs more than a hen in a year . 
Duck eggs are heavier than hen eggs , and weigh from 70 to 84 grams each . 
There were 16.24 million ducks in India , in 1982 . 
Important breeds of Indian ducks are Sylhet Mete and Nageswari . 
The Indian Runner and the Khaki Campbell are the improved breeds which have thrived well under Indian conditions . 
It is light brown in color with black tips on feathers and yellow beak . 
When in full feather , the duck has a blue neck and head . 
Brush carefully the day after surgery . 
Call your dentist or physician immediately in case of excessive bleeding or swelling , persistent , severe pain or fever . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
A diabetic clinic was set up in 1960 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences , delhi . 
Text of instructions like commandments of religious puritanism , strict rituality and hardline discipline have been overbearing in many diabetic clinics . 
The average yield of eggs varies from 80 to 150 per duck . 
The color of the egg is white . 
The average weight of the egg is about 56 grams . 
An adult bird weighs about 1.8 kilograms . 
The back and most of the body of these birds are black , while the breast and throat are white in color . 
Under farm conditions , a duck of this type lays 80 to 150 eggs a year . 
The color of the egg is pale blue . 
The average weight of an egg is about 56 grams . 
An adult bird weighs nearly two kilograms . 
The growing and laying birds should be fed good ration . 
Ducks drink a lot of water along with the mash . 
Clean fresh water should always be provided to them . 
For breeding , one drake is allowed for every five or six ducks . 
Eggs of the common duck take 28 days to hatch . 
In the case of eggs of the Muscovy duck , the incubation period is 35 days . 
An average sized goose can take about fifteen eggs for hatching . 
Respiration per minute is 20 to 25 . 
The rate of heart beat is 110 per minute . 
The management of diabetes is ' art of the possible ' . 
Claims for indigenous methods of therapy are being prospectively evaluated . 
Diabetic care needs patience , compassion , optimism and time from the physician . 
This book attempts to provide information on such principles , though the care of each diabetic still needs to be individualised . 
The law is on your side if you have good cause for complaint . 
Your legal rights 
It is an offence for a supplier to sell goods unless they are safe . 
Prompt action may help prevent accident of injury to other customers . 
You have the same rights even if you lose your receipt . 
A receipt , however , is useful evidence of where and when you bought the goods . 
Only the buyer has the statutory rights described earlier . 
You are not legally obliged to return faulty goods to the seller at your own expense . 
If an item is bulky and would be difficult or expensive to return to the shop , ask the seller to collect it . 
It is up to the courts to decide if a term is unfair . 
Alternatively , you can write to the Director General of Fair Trading who will , similarly , consider whether a term is unfair . 
Making a complaint 
When you complain , get your facts right and always keeping calm . 
You are more likely to get matters resolved if you do not lose your temper . 
These are not available if you rent . 
A secured loan gives security to the lender , not to you . 
If you can not keep up repayments the lender can sell your home to cover any loss . 
Right to cancel 
If you change your mind and want to cancel a credit deal , you should be all right if ; 
the deal was made within the last few days ; and 
When you sign , you should be given a copy of the credit agreement , which sets out your cancellation rights . 
You should also receive , by post , a second copy or notice of your cancellation rights . 
If you can cancel , there should be a cancellation box on your copy of the agreement telling you what to do . 
Act quickly , as there are tight time limits . 
Any goods you were buying through a credit agreement will have to go back . 
It is the shop 's responsibility to collect them . 
Make sure you keep them in good condition until they are taken away . 
Make sure you know what this will be before you commit yourself . 
This applies if the goods cost more than 100 . 
The credit company is equally liable for any claim you have against the trader . 
It is sensible to approach the trader first . 
You can , however , make a claim against the credit card issuer or finance company without doing this . 
Settling up early 
Even so , settling early will cost less than carrying on with the repayments plus interest for the full length of the loan . 
Goods on order from a shop 
If you do not need the goods by a specific time , you could ask for an estimated delivery date . 
But even if you do not agree a delivery date the seller must deliver in a reasonable time . 
If you think enough time has passed and do not want to wait any longer , tell the seller . 
When you order something , you and the seller should agree a fixed price . 
You may agree that if the cost of the goods goes up before delivery , you will pay the increase . 
Whatever the situation , make sure you know where you stand , preferably in writing . 
Be particularly careful when giving your credit card details over the telephone that you are dealing with a reliable trader . 
Goods should be delivered within a reasonable time , usually 28 days or as specified in the advertisement . 
If the goods do not turn up you can cancel the order and ask for the money back . 
But if you agree to allow the seller extra time , you can not cancel until that time is up . 
The law allows you a reasonable time to examine the goods . 
Do this as soon as you can and if they are faulty send them back immediately with a note explaining the problem . 
Keep a copy of your note . 
It is also advisable to get a proof of postage certificate from the Post Office . 
Most mail order catalogues have special arrangements for the return of goods . 
In other cases , the company should reimburse you for the cost of returning the goods . 
If you order through an advertisement read it thoroughly before placing an order and keep a copy . 
If you have to send cash , send it by registered post . 
If ordering from a book or record club , make sure you know what commitment you are making . 
Find out exactly what you have to buy and over how long in order to qualify for the introductory offer . 
You can write to the publication 's advertising-manager advertising manager for help . 
Many mail order companies belong to trade associations which may offer ways of resolving problems . 
If you receive goods through the post that you have not ordered , you do not have to accept them . 
Write to the firm explaining that you do not want the goods . 
If they are not collected within 30 days , they become yours . 
If you do not write to the firm , put the goods to one side , unused . 
A firm which demands payment for unsolicited goods could be breaking the law . 
If you come across this problem contact your local trading standards department . 
Think twice before you pay anything for goods and services before you receive them . 
If it is local , make sure it is listed in the telephone book . 
Ask the firm if it belongs to a trade association which runs a scheme to protect prepayments . 
If you do pay anything in advance make sure you get a receipt showing the name and address . 
If you pay a deposit and then cancel the order , the firm could claim to be entitled to keep your deposit . 
Check whether deposits are returnable , and , if so , in precisely what circumstances . 
If you use a credit card to pay a deposit for goods or services costing more than 100 , you normally have more protection . 
Guarantees give you additional rights which may be a useful back up if you have to complain . 
Guarantees should be clear , unambiguous and available for you to see before you make a purchase . 
With some goods you may have manufacturers ' guarantees . 
For the guarantee to be effective you may need to ensure that you return the registration card to a stated address . 
Make sure you retain the documentation supplied with the goods which tells you how to make a claim under your guarantee . 
Later this substance was chemically identified as insulin , a hormone that primarily regulates carbohydrate metabolism in the body . 
The pancreas , a gland that lies behind the stomach , produces the hormone , insulin . 
Diabetes results from a problem with the way the body handles certain foods . 
There are different uses for different kinds of foods . 
Some problem sectors 
Buying new and used cars 
Decide on what you want and how much you can afford . 
Add on estimates of running costs , insurance , tax , MOT , petrol , repairs and servicing . 
If you are taking out a loan , add on the repayments . 
Do not be afraid to haggle over the price . 
If you are not clear about any part of the deal , ask for an explanation . 
Get it in writing if you are still not happy . 
Buying a new car 
You need to make sure you know what items are offered as options and what are included as standard on the car . 
The final price will usually reflect the number of options you want on the car . 
There may be offers included with the car such as insurance or extended warranties . 
You could ask to see this too . 
In fact , a reputable dealer should be pleased to confirm the car 's history to a potential buyer . 
Beware a dealer who is cagey about a car 's history . 
Car magazines often provide a range of advice on what to look and listen for when on a test drive . 
Is the dealer content to have the car tested by the AA or RAC before you buy ? 
If the car is in for a regular service , make sure you know what this include . 
Check whether the costs for labor , parts and VAT are all included . 
Once the job is finished , get a detailed invoice listing all work carried out , showing parts and labor costs . 
If the problem can not be resolved , you will probably still have to pay the disputed bill to get your car back 
In diabetes , carbohydrates are the key . 
Carbohydrates provide the body 's cells with fuel for heat and energy . 
When carbohydrates are digested , they turn into a form of sugar called glucose . 
After a meal , glucose circulates in the bloodstream . 
It is the source of energy for the body to carry on its activities . 
Insulin has several functions . 
It helps the glucose or blood sugar to enter the body 's cells providing them with energy . 
It is also involved with the storage of reserve supplies of glucose in the muscles and liver . 
Home maintenance and improvements 
There are always repair maintenance and improvement jobs to be done in the home . 
If you are not a DIY expert you will have to find a reliable contractor 
A few sensible precautions taken at the outset could mean the difference between money well spent or money wasted . 
Choosing a contractor 
Choose your contractor with care . 
Ask friends and neighbors whom they recommend and draw up a list setting out exactly what you want done . 
Do not pay for work until it has been completed to your satisfaction . 
If it is a large job you might be asked for stage payments for work done . 
You can find the names and addresses of relevant trade associations from your local library or citizens advice bureau . 
This does not mean that the company can not fail , but it is less likely to . 
You should look for the ATOL number in brochures and on invoices . 
This is the case even if the travel firm goes out of business before your holiday begins or while you are away . 
Sometimes a holiday operator has a policy of insisting that customers take out its own travel insurance . 
If taking out travel insurance is a condition of taking the holiday you have no right to opt out of that requirement . 
High concentration fluoride gels , mouth rinses , drops and tablets may be recommended by your dentist . 
Your dentist may recommend at home fluoride treatments to reverse the decay process . 
Tooth decay often begins on biting surfaces , between the teeth , and on exposed roots . 
Decay spreads beneath the enamel and can destroy the tooth structure 
Use of fluoridated toothpaste can help prevent tooth decay at its early stage . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
When you lose one or more teeth , your remaining teeth can drift out of position . 
building knowledge and skills 
Consumer education is a top priority . 
The Government is working with a wide range of groups to develop training packages for adults and school children . 
Promoting customer service 
Working with business , consumer groups and local authorities , the Government has drawn up core principles for effective codes of practice . 
more help for business 
a modern trading standards service 
develop clear performance measures which encourage local accountability 
The Government wants consumers to have a powerful voice . 
It also wants to see effective consumer representation . 
consumers ' views are sought before decisions are taken on relevant industrial , trade and social policy issues . 
A consumer advisory group will report directly to Ministers 
The Government is giving the OFT new opportunities to develop its role as a consumer watchdog . 
The Government will help relaunch the NCC as a dynamic and even more effective force in UK consumer affairs . 
When much sugar is lost through the urine , it is not converted to energy . 
The body then has to get its energy from its fat and protein tissues . 
If your child is registered as a pupil at a particular school , that school must give permission for your child to be absent . 
Why must my child go to school regularly ? 
Having a good education will help to give your child the best possible start in life . 
If your child does not attend school regularly , he or she will not be able to keep up with the work . 
Employers will want to be sure that the people they are thinking of taking on are reliable . 
So children who have not attended their school regularly have less chance of getting a good job . 
Young people who are off school for no good reason are at risk of becoming victims of crime or abuse . 
Education welfare officers work closely with schools . 
If your child is not attending school regularly , an education welfare officer may visit you . 
This could result in you and your partner being fined up to 1000 for each child who is not going to school . 
DO SOMETHING YOU LOVE FOR A LIVING 
WORKING IN EARLY YEARS , CHILDCARE AND PLAYWORK 
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS ? 
WHAT EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS DO I NEED ? 
WHAT WILL I EARN ? 
STILL NOT SURE ? 
WHERE NEXT ? 
WHY WORK WITH CHILDREN ? 
You 'd be playing a key role in the lives of the children you care for . 
Your involvement could help children develop social learning skills that would stand them in good stead throughout their lives . 
After all , they 're our future . 
COULD IT BE ME ? 
Thousands of people are still needed nationwide to give children the best start . 
If you have the right blend of skills and personal qualities , you could be one of them . 
Children need a variety of positive role models and good influences . 
In return , the rewards are great . 
You 'll watch children grow and gain in confidence as they learn and play . 
You 'll share in their achievements and be there for them when they need you . 
You 'll give them security and feel in return the trust they invest in you . 
It often involves working as part of a team , training and learning day by day . 
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS ? 
There is variety as well as job satisfaction . 
You could also choose to specialise in working with children with special educational needs . 
'' I KNOW I 'M DOING A REALLY IMPORTANT JOB , LOOKING AFTER THE MOST PRECIOUS THING IN A PARENT 'S LIFE . '' 
Many are also working towards qualifications to help them provide a better service to children and families , and to assist their career development . 
You 'll find them in your telephone directory . 
They will be relevant to assistants working with children from Reception to age 16 . 
The Framework gives clear information on appropriate qualifications . 
What every parent should know 
This will be for allpupils and parents , not just new pupils . 
There are many ways you can help your child in school . 
By law you are responsible for making sure he or she goes to school regularly , and on time . 
But you can also help by supporting the school 's rules , and its arrangements for homework . 
Make sure your child knows that you support the school 's policies . 
Ask your child 's teachers how you can help your child at school . 
Make sure the school knows that you want to be told as soon as any problems arise which involve your child . 
Let them know about anything else you would like them to tell you . 
Good behavior and discipline in school pupils should come from a partnership between home and school . 
Doing homework helps children to develop important skills , in particular those of independent learning . 
The Government recommends regular homework for all children from year 1 upwards . 
We have asked all schools to draw up a written statement of their policy on homework , consulting parents . 
The amount of homework recommended in the guidelines , in broad terms , is shown below . 
children are not expected to do too much on one day and not enough on another ; 
the tasks they are set are realistic within the time available ; 
tasks are clearly related to the work children are doing in school and are not too difficult or too easy ; 
Some women develop a different type of diabetes during pregnancy , which may turn into Type II diabetes some years later . 
But it is very difficult to separate racial and ethnic factors from genetic factors . 
Inactivity There is some evidence that people with sedentary habits are more likely to get diabetes than people who are very active . 
The agreement may also tell you the school will consult you about any changes to homework arrangements . 
Good communication between the school and the home is essential . 
It is also important to make sure you tell the school about any issues that might affect your child 's work or behavior . 
How will I be involved ? 
Schools will have different ways of consulting you . 
Ask your child 's school how they will consult you . 
What do I need to think about when giving the school my views ? 
what you expect from the school ; 
what should the school expect from you , and from your child ; 
what the school tells you and what you need to know ; 
what can the school do to help you help your child ; and 
The school will ask you to sign the agreement to show that you understand and accept it . 
They might also ask your child to sign if he or she is old enough to understand it . 
What happens if I , or my child , break the agreement ? 
If you , or your child , break the agreement , the headteacher may want to discuss the matter with you . 
The school should not discipline or exclude your child simply because you , or your child , have broken the agreement . 
However , if your child breaks the agreement by seriously breaking school discipline , he or she may be disciplined or excluded . 
And finally ... 
It is important that you have your say . 
Make sure that the agreement sets out clearly what the school will do for your child and how you can help . 
PO Box 5050 
PP3 D14 36231 1298 55 
ISBN 0 85522 909 8 
Helping with your children 's reading 
Learning at Home 
All children need to learn to read , and all parents want their children to be able to read and write . 
The most important thing is that children learn better when they enjoy reading . 
Young children watch what adults do and learn by copying them . 
Reading is no different , but they must want to learn to read . 
It will help if they can see others enjoying reading themselves . 
Boys , in particular , need to know that reading important , and fathers and grandfathers reading to them can help . 
Seeing adults reading from books , newspapers , recipes or menus will make children want to read for themselves . 
Your child will gain a lot from spending time with you talking and listening , reading and writing . 
Most children will try hard to please you and will want to do well . 
Best of all , sharing the fun of reading is a great experience for children and adults . 
From the start , the time you spend reading with your children will make books and stories come alive . 
Board books and bath books are often the first books children will come across . 
Children often want to listen to the same story again and again . 
This is fine , as it builds confidence and familiarity with words , and reinforces that stories are fun . 
Try to share books together each day , and not just at bedtime . 
A few minutes of special , quiet time with a book every day is much more valuable than half an hour a week . 
No child is too young to join the library . 
There are hundreds of brightly colored books to choose from for readers of all ages , from babies to teenagers . 
Learning to read 
Most children learn to read by putting letters together that match up with the sounds that they remember hearing . 
They learn the sounds that letters make . 
They learn how letters join together to make words . 
Words don ` t just belong in books . 
Help and encouragement 
Ask your child 's teachers for advice and ideas about how you can help with reading and writing . 
The next step 
Read them , or parts of them yourself and talk about them with your child . 
Buy books as presents instead of toys . 
Set up a special place for books from the library or their own books . 
The librarians will be able to give helpful advice to adults who want to choose books for their children . 
Also , keep your eyes open for book and storytelling events taking place in the library . 
Children are often eager to write . 
Writing often follows on from drawing and from the child 's reading . 
Children like to be able to write their names , to label drawings or to write a story to go with a picture . 
They learn about reading through their writing , having to think about the sound and how words look . 
At the beginning , don ` t worry too much about untidy writing . 
Children find it easier to practise the patterns of the letters that way . 
You can make a word box filled with words your child uses most and which you can add new words to . 
Or , your child can make their own lists of common , popular , difficult and new words . 
Lots of children find spelling hard . 
Spell out words with fridge magnets , or letter tiles from word games . 
Take some letters out and get your child to put the right ones back in the right places . 
Play games with lists of words . 
Think up harder versions as your child learns more ! 
Whenever you 're reading together , make sure your child feels OK and is comfortable . 
Use books with pictures , and later , with pictures and words . 
Picture books help children match the pictures to the words . 
Start with simple words . 
No book handy ? 
Think about other ways you can use the word you see all around you to help your child become a better reader . 
You probably won ` t run out of ideas ! 
Questions and answers 
Try to find a subject or character he really likes . 
Anything involving words and letters helps with reading and writing skills . 
No , this won ` t be a problem but he may need extra help . 
You can talk to your son 's teacher about this as well . 
Lines will help him keep his writing straight and easier to read . 
Use lines with wide spaces to start with . 
What can I do ? 
Writing large letters will help her feel the shape as she makes them . 
Does this matter ? 
Book Trust is a charitable organization that provides many services , including free book lists , which will help you choose . 
The Federation of Children 's Book Groups also provides book lists and advice . 
extra training for all primary teachers in the most effective ways of teaching reading and writing ; and 
the Government spending over 50 million each year . 
This includes money for new books for primary schools . 
You can help your child 's teacher . 
Your child may be given books to take home and read with you . 
National Year of Reading 
The Government is also supporting thousands of events across the UK in the National Year of Reading . 
These run from September 1998 to August 1999 . 
Parents as partners 
This national government initiative aims to raise standards of reading and writing for all children . 
Of course , parents are very important partners in helping children with reading and writing . 
sets out some of the main things we know about how children learn to read and write 
explains why lessons are planned in this way 
asks for your help in supporting reading and writing at home 
Learning to read and write 
Reading , writing , talking and listening are a key part of what children learn in their first years at school . 
enjoy talking about what they read and telling us what they think 
learn new words 
spell words correctly and write clearly 
read and write confidently 
Children learn to read best when they have many ways of working out the meaning . 
All the time in the literacy hour is spent on reading and writing . 
There is a literacy hour every day of the week . 
It is usually divided into four parts . 
With young children the teacher works with the whole class for the first half hour . 
First she will read the book aloud , and point to the words and pictures . 
The teacher will ask questions and encourage the children to think about what they read . 
Where is the title of the book ? 
Why was that part funny ? 
What do you think it will be about ? 
to know that the words go from left to right 
to see where one word ends and the next word begins 
to recognise letters and words 
to hear the sounds of letters 
to recognise words or sounds that rhyme 
In the next part of the hour , the class is split up into groups of four to six children . 
For the last part of the literacy hour the teacher works with the whole class again . 
She asks the children to discuss what they have been doing and review what they have learned . 
Why have a literacy hour ? 
Because reading and writing are so important , it makes sense to give them a set time , every day . 
Schools that are trying the literacy hour find it works well and leads to good improvements in children 's reading and writing . 
When will the teacher hear my child read ? 
What do older children do in the literacy hour ? 
As children become independent readers and writers , they still spend an hour every day on reading and writing . 
They work on more complex books . 
They draft and edit their writing . 
This might be a news article , a set of instructions , a description , a letter or a story . 
Will my child learn reading and writing at other times ? 
They use their reading and writing in other lessons . 
And there are times when they can do more reading , or finish a piece of writing . 
How will I know what progress my child is making ? 
Your child 's teacher will talk with you about your child 's progress in reading and writing . 
She will also set targets . 
to leave spaces between words 
to tell the story in their own words . 
to explain what a person in a story is like 
to write in paragraphs 
to learn how to spell a number of words 
to take notes as they watch a video . 
practising with them to help them reach their target 
praising them when they reach it . 
send books home and ask you to read them with your child 
ask parents to help in school 
Reading and Writing at Home 
Young children learn a great deal from you about reading and writing , before they start school . 
They learn to talk and listen to what you say . 
They learn about looking at books , asking questions about the story and starting to write . 
When they go to school , the help you give them is just as important . 
The more chances your child has to enjoy reading and writing at home , the better . 
talk about the story together 
let them see you reading and writing 
help them to read signs and labels when you 're out together 
If I am listening to my child read , and they are stuck on a word , what should I do ? 
point to a picture , if this helps them with the meaning 
give them the first or last sound and see if they can read the word 
read the word for them . 
You could read along with them . 
pause , then 
prompt , then , 
Encourage them to talk about the ideas in the story . 
Help at home gives children the best start in reading and writing 
Teaching Children Road Safety 
Your child 's best road safety teacher is you 
Because basic road safety can best be taught in the street . 
Your child is out and about with you . 
Please don ` t wait for the school to teach your child road safety . 
This is the age when children need to get more and more independence . 
Get your child to practise judging the speed and distance of approaching vehicles on a busy road and identifying safe gaps . 
Stress that they should never blindly follow others across the road . 
They must always think for themselves . 
Many of them think they ' know it all ' . 
Road safety at school 
Ask your child 's teacher or a school governor about road safety education at school , and what cycle training courses are available . 
If there is a button , press it and wait for the green man . 
Always cross on the stripes , or between the studs on a crossing with a red and green man . 
Stop at the island and wait for the traffic on the other side to stop before you continue . 
Teach your child to be a good passenger . 
This will help to protect them from serious injury . 
It is not safe to carry a child on your lap or to carry two people in one seat belt . 
Never use a rear facing child restraint in the front seat of a car fitted with a passenger air bag . 
For children of 13 and under it is the driver 's responsibility to make sure that seat belts are worn . 
The right one depends on the weight , size and age of your child . 
Phone 0870 122 6236 or contact your local authority road safety officer . 
Otherwise choose a place where you can see clearly in all directions . 
Move to a space where find a safe place to drivers can see you clearly . 
Find a safe place to cross then stop 
Stand where you can see if anything is coming . 
If there is no pavement , keep back from the edge of the road but make sure you can still see approaching traffic . 
Traffic could come from any direction . 
Also listen , because you can sometimes hear traffic before you see it . 
look all around again 
Look all around again and listen . 
Do not cross until there is a safe gap in the traffic and you are certain that there is plenty of time . 
When there 's no traffic near walk straight across the road 
This can lead to a change in the bite , the loss of additional teeth , decay and gum disease . 
Dental implants can be an effective method to replace one tooth or several teeth . 
Implants can also support a bridge , replace a partial denture or secure a fixed denture . 
Several steps are usually necessary to place an implant . 
A metal anchor , or artificial root is placed into the jawbone . 
Bone grows around the anchor . 
If you would like more time to comment , you should talk to the Named Officer . 
Usually , the LEA must make the final statement within eight weeks of the draft statement . 
The school 's governors must do their best to make sure that your child gets the special educational help set out in the statement . 
What if you disagree with the statement ? 
If you disagree with what is in the statement , you should first ask your Named Officer at the LEA for an explanation . 
How long does a statement last ? 
Your child could have a statement for their whole school career , or for just a part of it . 
Can you ask for your child to be assessed again ? 
SEN Code of Practice 
Schools and LEAs must take account of the Code when they deal with a child with special educational needs . 
Special Educational Needs Tribunal 
An independent body that hears appeals against decisions made by LEAs on statutory assessments and statements . 
Special educational provision 
The extra or different help given to children with special educational needs . 
Statement of special educational needs 
A document that sets out a child 's needs and all the extra help they should get . 
A very detailed examination of a child 's special educational needs . 
It sets out the steps needed to move from school to adult life . 
If you need more help 
There are many voluntary organizations that help children with disabilities or learning difficulties , and their parents . 
Others offer more general advice . 
Some of the main organizations are listed at the back of this booklet . 
Is the tribunal independent ? 
We are independent . 
How to appeal 
Why might I need to make an appeal ? 
You should still talk to the LEA to try and sort matters out after sending in your appeal . 
When can I appeal to the tribunal ? 
Voluntary organizations , parents ' groups or your named person , if you have one , may be able to help you . 
Is there a time limit for making an appeal ? 
If you decide to appeal , you have two months to do so . 
We will do our best to make sure that the hearing starts on time but there will sometimes be delays . 
Who will hear my appeal ? 
A tribunal panel is made up of three people . 
The other two members will have knowledge and experience of special educational needs . 
Will the hearing be in private ? 
You and the LEA can agree that the hearing should be in public . 
Do I have to come to the hearing ? 
The three members of the tribunal . 
What happens during the hearing ? 
What if the LEA doesn ` t carry out the tribunal 's decision ? 
Will I have to pay any costs if I lose the appeal ? 
You and the LEA will not normally have to pay the other 's costs . 
If A Blood Sample Is Being Taken 
We are doing this by testing the blood from some patients , including babies . 
Health diagnosis which can save your life 
This is an initial precaution , which will show any change in the cells taken from the cervix of the uterus . 
If this change is not treated , the cells may become cancerous . 
Who needs to be tested ? 
It will not affect your sex life or your fertility . 
Any questions ? 
Ask your doctor or nurse . 
What do you know about breasts ? 
Most changes are not harmful or adverse but they must be tested by your doctor . 
Sometimes it may be cancer . 
When I should check my breasts ? 
It depends on you . 
But when you fell any change or abnormality during your menstrual cycle . 
How do I do a check ? 
is at right temperature ; 
looks appetising and tastes good ; 
gives value for money ; 
Food poisoning may occur even when food has been prepared in clean kitchens if the food is not properly . 
Assured safe catering is a system developed for caterers and with caterers to control food safety problems . 
By carefully analyzing each step of the catering operation , anything which might affect the safety of the food is identified . 
You can then decide when and how to control that hazard . 
Assured Safe Catering helps prevent safety problems by careful planning in easy steps . 
A hazard is anything that may cause harm to a customer . 
The diagram below shows the stages to go through to set up an Assured Safe Catering system . 
This can be applied to any size of catering business . 
Stage 3 Draw a flow chart of the operation showing the catering steps 
Stage 6 Full screen check 
You should control the hazards shown in the Critical Control points Chart . 
You will need to identify the Critical Control Points that apply to your operation . 
There may be other Critical Control Points in your operation that are not shown in the chart . 
On delivery , check what the food looks like , its packaging , and the best before or use by dates ; 
Check that all equipment , eg knives and chopping boards , is cleaned before it is used . 
Records will also give useful information if there is a query from a environmental health officer or a customer . 
You will need to prepare any necessary record sheets . 
You may need to produce instructions for controls and checking procedures for staff to refer to . 
What is to be done ; 
How it is to be done ; 
When it is to be done ; 
Where it is to be done ; 
Who is to do it . 
Make sure all staff know and understand what they have to do so that the system works properly . 
It is running as you planned it to run ; 
The checking of the critical control points is satisfactory . 
Being checked as often as necessary ; 
Accompanied by adequate instructions . 
When checks show that the system is not working correctly ; 
From time to time to see that the system is working . 
Assured Safe Catering will help you , your business , and your customers . 
Before a doctor or other health professional examines or treats you , they need your consent . 
Sometimes you can simply tell them whether you agree with their suggestions . 
What should I know before deciding ? 
If you 'd rather not know about certain aspects , discuss your worries with whoever is treating you . 
Should I ask questions ? 
If you 'd rather not know about certain aspects , discuss your worries with whoever is treating you . 
Should I ask questions ? 
Always ask anything you want . 
To support you and prompt questions , you might like to bring a friend or relative . 
Ask if you 'd like someone independent to speak up for you . 
Is there anything I should tell people ? 
If there 's any procedure you don ` t want to happen , you should tell the people treating you . 
It 's also important for them to know about any illnesses or allergies which you may have or have suffered from in the past . 
Can I find out more about giving consent ? 
Who is treating me ? 
You 'll also have an opportunity to talk with the anaesthetist when he or she assesses your state of health shortly before treatment . 
Will samples be taken ? 
You would always be told about this in advance . 
Other operations may mean taking samples as part of your care . 
These samples may be of blood or small sections of tissue , for example of an unexplained lump . 
Such samples may be further checked by other health professionals to ensure the best possible standards . 
Again , you should be told in advance if samples are likely to be taken . 
The NHS trust treating you will have a local system for checking whether you 're willing for this to happen . 
The use of photographs and recordings is also extremely important for other NHS work , such as teaching or medical research . 
However , we will not use yours in a way that might allow you to be identified or recognised without your express permission . 
What if things don ` t go as expected ? 
Amongst the 25COMMA000 operations taking place every day , sometimes things don ` t go as they should . 
What are the key things to remember ? 
It 's your decision ! 
When am I likely to be able to get back to work ? 
Will my mobility be affected ? 
Will I still be able to drive ? 
Will it affect the kind of work I do ? 
Will it affect my personal sexual relationships ? 
Will I be able to take part in my favorite sport exercises ? 
Will I be able to follow my usual diet ? 
Health care professionals should welcome your views and discuss any issues so they can work in partnership with you for the best outcome . 
Cot death , also called Sudden Infant Death Syndrome , usually affects babies between one and five months . 
It happens while they 're asleep and is always sudden and unexpected . 
Because no one yet knows why Cot Death happens , there 's no sure way to prevent it . 
Studies have shown that by taking a few simple precautions , you can reduce the risk . 
Why not keep this leaflet next to where your baby sleeps so everyone knows what to do . 
Recent research shows that Cot Death is more common in babies who go to sleep on their tummies . 
By making sure your baby goes to sleep in the right position you can reduce the risk of Cot Death . 
At the same time , the levels of fats and proteins in the bloodstream rise . 
These blood fats and proteins , over time , can affect the walls of blood vessels and also lead to some serious problems . 
Lack of exercise may as well influence these risk factors . 
The possibility for vascular disease also proportionately increases with age . 
Approaches in Treatment While diabetes can ` t be cured , it can be controlled and there are different ways to do it . 
Don ` t be worried that babies might be sick and choke if laid on their backs . 
There is no evidence that this happens . 
Some babies who require special care or who have particular medical problems need to be nursed on their tummies . 
For babies who have been sleeping on their tummies , try them on their backs or sides . 
But they may not like the change and find it difficult to settle . 
If this happens then it is probably wise not to upset them by insisting on the new position . 
Do not smoke anywhere near the baby . 
Better still do not smoke at all . 
If your baby seems unwell seek medical advice early and quickly . 
Remember it is comparatively rare , so do not let the fear of Cot Death spoil the first months with your baby . 
Discharge From Hospital 
Since April 1993 there have been changes in the way social care is financed and provided . 
They will do this both by providing some services themselves and by buying in care from a variety of private ad voluntary providers . 
This will give more choice and flexibility to users and the people who care for them . 
Who Will Get the Help 
How to Get Help 
Someone will come to see you in hospital to find out more about you and what you would like to see happen . 
If you require more information contact your Ward Nurse who will be able to help . 
The addresses and phone numbers of Manchester Social Services Department offices are given over the page . 
Organ donation can be a difficult subject to think or talk about . 
Most people do not want to contemplate their own death . 
Nor do bereaved relatives find it easy to decide on the donation of the organs of a loved one who has just died . 
But far more patients could be saved if there were more donor organs available . 
By allowing your organs to be used for transplant after your death , you will be giving someone else their life back . 
Recipients are chosen on the grounds of need and by blood group and , if necessary , by tissue characteristics . 
There is a waiting-list waiting list for organ transplants because the demand exceeds the supply . 
Who can be an organ donor ? 
Anyone could be a donor . 
Will the fact that I am a known donor affect the treatment I receive in hospital ? 
The doctors involved in your treatment will not be the ones interested in organ donation . 
Only after they are satisfied that nothing more can be done will the question of organ donation be raised . 
Will I really be dead when they remove my organs ? 
You can probably think of other examples . 
This process can start when children are quite young , and it need to continue throughout childhood and adolescence . 
If the issue is raised with your children , express honestly both the pleasures and the problems of that time of your life . 
If drug use is discussed in appropriate contexts it may lose some of its attraction as a secretive and mysterious thing to do . 
Why do young people take drugs ? 
What can you do about it ? 
Everyone is individual and will have their own particular reasons for using drugs . 
Parents try to deal with drug use by their children will need to make sure that they don ` t jump to conclusions . 
They may need extra support to get over their sense of loss or guilt without the help of drugs . 
If so , it is important to find this out and help the young person overcome these difficulties without turning to drugs . 
What about longer term use ? 
Trips out of town and sport can be good ways of making drugtaking less interesting and therefore less likely . 
to bring the body weight as near as possible to optimum weight for patient 's age , sex and height ; 
Similarly for a pregnant woman extra allowance is called for . 
For an obese person , a deficit of approximately 500 calories per day permits loss of weight of about one pound a week . 
Food Constituents Different kinds of foods are available for one 's daily consumption . 
The major rood categories , are carbohdrates , proteins and fats , although most foods contain two or more categories . 
For example , eggs and most cheeses are about half protein and half fat . 
Therefore , one should cut down on foods that are high in cholesterol . 
These foods include eggs , liver and other organ meats , and certain kinds of shellfish . 
Saturated fats include animal fats , such as butter , cream , and bacon . 
A wide variety of vitamins and minerals are essential for proper nutrition . 
Some foods contain a lot of one kind , while others have small amounts of several kinds . 
In other words , they may make the body 's own insulin work better . 
When diet alone is not enough , oral agents may be added or insulin injections may be required . 
The decision is based on a number of factors and an experienced physician can advise on this issue . 
Blood dyscrasias and jaundice are rare . 
Oral agents do not replace diets . 
Oral agents have to be continued even though blood glucose has been normalised . 
Secondary failure to drug may ensue after a year or so . 
All such patients who have the risk of ketoacidosis or coma need insulin therapy . 
Insulin potency is measured in units . 
These episodes may have insidious onset , may be prolonged and may sometimes recur even after taking some glucose . 
One should consider reducing insulin dosage before undertaking vigorous exercises . 
Reduces body fat and increases tone of the muscle tissues . 
Muscle cells use more glucose than fat cells . 
Individuals with this type of fat distribution are more likely to have high insulin levels . 
Is an adjunct to diet to assist in weight reduction . 
Risks Injuries to feet are likely especially if nerve-damage nerve damage is present . 
Compliance to treatment and regular monitoring of physical status pays dividend for a healthy life of a diabetic . 
Once there is indes more of suspicion , diagnosis is not difficult . 
The main objective is to create an environment and liasion so that child can very freely communicate with the health care team . 
The expectations from this child have to be realistic for the age ability . 
Normally a person eats just enough to provide and sustain body functions . 
Many adults maintain the same weight for years without effort . 
They eat to relieve their feelings of despair , to compensate emotionally for a feeling of insecurity , frustration or lack of affection . 
Correct diagnosis and its treatment can reverse this status to normalcy . 
Wash hands well with soap and water . 
Observe the rate and type of breathing now and then . 
Pack some supplies in the handbag or hand luggage , in case one gets separated from suitcase . 
Limitations in life activities . 
Restrictions in dietary routine . 
Those who have a family history of diabetes mellitus and who tend to be overweight . 
To keep a healthy , bright smile , daily care is a must . 
Regular brushing , flossing and visits to your dentist will help minimize your risk of tooth decay and gum disease . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
A healthy mouth is a more attractive mouth . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Crowns strengthen and protect the remaining tooth structure and can improve the appearance of your smile . 
Fitting a crown requires at least two visits to the dentist 's office . 
It may interfere with speech and breathing because this mouthguard requires that the jaw be closed to hold it in place . 
A stock mouthguard is not considered acceptable as a facial protective device . 
The shell is lined with acrylic or rubber . 
When placed in an athletes mouth , the protectors lining material molds to the teeth and is allowed to set . 
It offers the best protection , fit and comfort level because it is made from a cast to fit your teeth . 
How should I care for a mouthguard ? 
But there does not seem to be any basis for such a belief . 
In different parts of the country , different seasons are preferred for getting animals castrated . 
Two cuts should be given on each side of the cord . 
The Burdizzo should not be placed too low on the cord as it may crush the testicles . 
The carcass and the infected litter should be carefully disposed . 
It is also comuunicable to human beings either through infected milk or meat . 
Some dairymen increase the carbohydrates for fresh cows by adding sugar or molasses to the ration . 
Water drunk in large quantities immediately after feeding on leguminous or succulent pastures hastens such an attack . 
Death may occur in very severe cases . 
SHEEP are perhaps the meekest of domestic animals . 
Broadly speaking , there are three main types of sheep found in India . 
The sheep in this region have superior fleece with higher percentage of undercoat . 
The average yield is about 1.5 kilograms per shearing . 
They are also reared in the Kulu and Kangra valleys , and in the Charnba and Mandi areas of hp . 
The undercoat is used for the manufacture of high quality Kulu shawls and blankets . 
These sheep have brown colored fleece and a soft undercoat which is used in the manufacture of superior cloth . 
The wool from this region is considered suitable for carpet manufacture and is exported in large quantities . 
Ewes and rams of those breeds which have proved most suitable for the conditions available in the area should only be selected for breeding . 
Selection of ram is most important in improving a flock . 
The ram should be masculine in appearance , strong and healthy . 
It should have strong legs and sound feet . 
The chest should be broad and deep . 
The sheep should be sheared in a clean , dry place , free from dust . 
Different qualities of wool should not be mixed . 
The mixing of the hair from the legs , belly and the thighs lowers the quality of fleece . 
The wool fibers are valued according to their elasticity and uniformity . 
The major portion of the wool obtained in India is hairy and coarse . 
The annual yield of wool per sheep , in India , varies from 340 grams to 1COMMA800 grams , the average being 700 grams . 
Thereafter the approximate age can be determined from the degree of wearing and discolouration of the teeth . 
Common Diseases of Sheep 
Most of the infectious diseases in sheep are caused as a result of poor management practices . 
The use of proper sprays , dips or dust are essential for the control of external parasites . 
Internal parasites can be controlled through proper pasture management and by keeping the sheep under hygienic conditions . 
Signs of illness in sheep are not as easily discernible as in other domestic animals . 
Sheep keep on following their usual routine even when they are seriously sick . 
One can only make out a sick sheep by observing its movements very carefully . 
The pulse rate varies from 68 to 90 and the respiration rate from 20 to 30 per minute . 
The disease causes rapid deaths in quick succession in the flock . 
To prevent the disease , general prophylactic measures should be adopted . 
High temperature and lameness are the chief symptoms of this disease . 
THE goat is called the poor man 's cow all over the world . 
Goat 's milk is highly wholesome and nourishing . 
It is considered specially suitable for invalids and infants on account of is easy digestibility . 
Goat flesh also fetches a better price than lamb and beef in most of the urban markets . 
The intestines of goats are used to make catguts . 
The goat has a habit of nibbling the buds of trees and of foraging on nearly any variety of plants . 
For this reason , it is considered a great enemy of vegetation , bringing about the erosion of soil . 
Adoption of correct practices for their care can bring about desirable change in their feeding habits . 
They can withstand very severe cold weather . 
They have long curved horns and long ears . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Periodontal disease , or gum disease , is a leading cause of tooth loss in adults . 
Regular dental visits are essential to maintaining gum health and timely diagnosis and treatment when needed . 
The early stage of gum disease is called gingivitis . 
The earliest stage of gum disease , often characterized by bleeding , tenderness , swelling and redness of the gums . 
Periodontitis A more advanced stage of gum disease involving bone and ligament surrounding the teeth . 
The disease rapidly spreads among goats . 
AMONG domestic animals pigs are the most prolific breeders and quick growers . 
A unit of ten sows and one boar will produce over 160 piglets during the first year . 
Pigs can make a full and efficient use of the cereal byproducts . 
Pig meat has a great demand in the manufacture of products such as ham , bacon and sausages . 
It is a prolific type of pig , and gives very large litters . 
It has , however , proved more suitable under controlled conditions of feeding and care than under ordinary village conditions . 
Large White Yorkshire breed is white in color . 
It is extremely long and deep and is firm fleshed . 
The ears are thin , long and slightly inclined forward and fringed with fine hair . 
Liberal feeding during these periods helps in bringing the sows to heat early . 
The young gilt shows the signs of first heat when she is about four to six months of age . 
Sows , after farrowing , come into heat between five to seven days after the litter is weaned . 
The sow should be served at this time . 
The heat period lasts from 40 to 65 hours , being longer in the sow than in the gilt . 
The gestation period in sows varies from 112 to 116 days , the average being 113 days . 
The affected animals should be separated and kept in clean and comfortable quarters . 
The carcass and infected litter should be disposed of by burning or deep burial with lime . 
The defects in diet , housing and management should be removed . 
Anthrax is a highly contagious and fatal disease of pigs . 
It is characterised by high fever followed by swelling of the throat , blood colored urine and respiratory distress . 
Infectious dysentery is a common disease of pigs . 
Contact Between Teeth 
Assessment of Mouth Cleanliness 
Regular preventive maintenance of this type , along with a thorough home care regimen , helps assure your good oral health . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Copyright 1993 On Target Media , Inc . 
Inside the hard outer shell of each tooth is a specialized area called the pulp or nerve chamber . 
It is important to discuss your symptoms with your dentist to determine the cause and proper treatment . 
What Causes Sensitive Teeth ? 
In healthy teeth , porous tissue called dentin is protected by your gums and your teeth 's hard enamel shell . 
Receding gums caused by improper brushing or gum disease . 
A special toothpaste for sensitive teeth that can either block access to the nerve or make the nerve itself less sensitive . 
When you eat , acid forms on the outside of the tooth and seeps into the enamel 's rods . 
This demineralization process can produce a weak spot in the tooth 's surface . 
Healthy tooth enamel rods before acid 's onslaught . 
Enamel rods demineralized , or broken down , by acid 
Enamel rods remineralized or rebuilt , by fluoride and the minerals in saliva . 
Common sources of fluoride are fluoridated drinking water , toothpaste and mouth rinse . 
Inform your dentist if your drinking water is not fluoridated . 
Impacted wisdom teeth are set in the jawbone in unusual positions , sometimes horizontally , which stops them from erupting in a normal way . 
Incision is made and overlying bone is removed , exposing crown of impacted tooth . 
Tooth is extracted whole or surgically sectioned . 
Use ice packs on the cheek for swelling , alternating on and off every thirty minutes . 
Apply biting pressure with clean gauze to stop bleeding . 
Eat soft foods and drink extra liquids . 
Avoid hard or crunchy foods in the tender area . 
On free range with plenty of grass , geese will devor huge quantities and require no other type of food . 
But for better growth and production , they need grain feed . 
The feed should be fed as wet mash and should consist of greens , cereals , bran and limestone grit . 
For better returns , geese should be marketed as soon as they reach maturity , at about nine to twelve months . 
Eggs of small breeds of goose take 28 days to hatch and of large breeds 34 to 35 days or more . 
Turkeys are hardy birds but they are subject to many of the diseases to which domestic fowls are susceptible . 
As in chickens , great care is needed to keep the premises in sanitary and hygienic conditions . 
Guinea fowls can play an important part in the poultry business . 
They are raised primarily for meat . 
They roam about widely in search of food . 
They can be fed and managed in a manner similar to chickens . 
This rule covers , for instance , the appearance and finish of the goods , their safety , and their durability . 
These are your statutory rights . 
Many traders have goodwill policies that go beyond your statutory rights . 
For example , some stores will allow you to exchange goods which are not faulty , such as clothes which are the wrong size . 
See page 56 
If in doubt seek further advice . 
were told the fault ; 
examined the item when you bought it and should have seen the fault ; 
If you get a new extension to your house , the walls should not crack and the roof must not leak ; 
The trader may only be able to make an informed guess at the cost and give you an estimate . 
If you agree a fixed cost it is usually called a quotation . 
A fixed price is binding whatever it is called . 
Take or send the completed form to your local County Court or Sheriff Court . 
There is a court fee , but this is payable by your opponent if you win your case . 
The court will ' serve ' the summons on the defendant and tell you what to do next . 
Some bookshops sell advice packs which includes the forms . 
Some of these can provide free legal advice as well , and some one may even be able to go to court with you . 
Leaflets are also available from any County or Sheriff Court . 
It is a criminal offence for traders to make misleading price claims about goods or services . 
An estimate is generally a rough price while a quotation is normally a fixed price . 
Make sure you know which you are getting and ask for it to be put in writing . 
Check whether prices quoted include VAT . 
Buying on credit 
work out what the total cost of the loan will be ; 
Check whether the loan has a variable rate of interest . 
If it has , your repayments can go up as well as down . 
If you are refused credit you have certain rights . 
Do not sign anything until you are sure you know what commitment you are making . 
If you have cancellation rights these must be given to you in writing . 
A seller who enters into a contract with you without advising you in writing of these rights will have committed an offence . 
If you have specifically asked a seller to visit you at home , you may not have the right to cancel 
Take care if you buy at an auction . 
Auctioneers , unlike other sellers , can refuse to accept responsibility for the quality of the goods they auction . 
Look out for exclusion clauses and read notices and catalogues carefully . 
Privately bought goods do not have to be free of faults , but they must be as described . 
For example , a leather coat should not be plastic , and full length curtains must not be half length . 
Some dealers offer fixed price ' no haggle ' deals , but in general , most car prices are negotiable . 
It is up to you to negotiate the best deal . 
A dealer earns commission by arranging finance , so you may be able to bargain for part of the commission on the finance deal . 
Consider whether you are getting the best deal . 
If you are trading in your old car , make sure you know what it is worth . 
Let the dealer offer you a price and then try to move it upwards . 
You must then decide whether you have a good deal . 
a summary of the government 's consumer white paper 
A fair deal and prosperity go hand in hand . 
And better performance in business in turn benefits consumers . 
The opening up of global markets and the spread of electronic commerce bring opportunities and challenges for consumers and for business . 
To make informed choices , consumers need reliable information on price , quality and the safety of products . 
The Government will take steps to ensure that consumers have access to accurate , comprehensive and comprehensible information . 
better information on prices 
Goods on sale in shops will be clearly priced . 
And it will be easier to compare the price of goods in different quantities . 
The Government proposes to change the law to introduce tougher controls on misdescriptions of services . 
providing timely information 
Risk , cost and alternative ways of achieving the desired result will always be considered before regulation . 
updating and simplifying the law on weights and measures 
the current system of consumer credit licensing . 
The Government wants a much clearer targeting of the dishonest . 
a power for the courts to grant injunctions against specific practices carried out by specified traders 
It will spell out the responsibilities of the school and your responsibilities , and what the school expects of their pupils . 
Children achieve more when schools and parents work together . 
Your support and encouragement are very important if your child is to make the most of school . 
Will all schools have these agreements ? 
When will they be introduced ? 
You and your child 's school should decide together what your agreement should say . 
This might say something about the standard of attainment the school is aiming for . 
Schools must draw up targets for National Curriculum assessments , GCSEs and vocational qualifications . 
Schools have to identify and support children with special educational needs . 
They can set extra targets to measure the progress of these children . 
The agreement might draw attention to these . 
Regular attendance on time 
It is important for your child 's future that he or she makes the most of his or her time at school . 
This means going regularly and turning up on time , qualities valued by employers . 
If you are a parent or carer , did you know the following ? 
By law you are responsible for making sure that your children are educated between the ages of 5 and 16 . 
If they do not go to school regularly , you may be fined . 
It is your responsibility to tell the school if your child can not go . 
Although they know the Green Cross Code they don ` t always apply it . 
What can you do ? 
You can do a lot to protect your child . 
Remember that children develop at different rates . 
Only you can decide when your child is ready to move from one stage to the next . 
Children under five can not cope with traffic . 
Never let them out alone or even with an older child . 
Choose somewhere safe for them to play ; never on the pavement or in the road , however quiet . 
If there is nowhere else for them to go , make sure an adult looks after them . 
Set a good example . 
Explain what traffic is . 
Every child should learn about traffic before going to school . 
Whenever you take your child out walking , tell them what you are doing and why . 
Practise on quiet roads near home . 
First , show what to do . 
Then let your child lead you across . 
Finally , let him or her cross while you wait behind , watching carefully . 
At this age , children are not ready to cross alone . 
The risk of a road accident rises when children start school . 
Why not set up a rota with two or three other parents and share taking the children from school ? 
Take the safest route to school , crossing roads at the safest place and explaining why . 
Watch and test before letting your child cross quiet roads alone . 
Later , start to practise crossing busier roads together . 
Many children can not judge how fast vehicles are going or how far away they are . 
The age when they can use and understand the Green Cross Code is different for each child . 
Children learn by example , so when walking with children always use the Green Cross Code . 
Make sure your child can be easily seen . 
Reflective material does work well and shows up in car headlights . 
Explain to your child why they should always wear something bright , especially at night . 
There has been no ideal epidemiological study applying standard criteria so far in our country . 
Identification of the factors that promote vascular disease in the same population also needs to be defined more precisely . 
Such killer diseases should be recognised before their magnitude assumes enormous and alarming proportions . 
Practical Point in the presence ot symptoms , Diood glucose value anytime above 200 mg dl is diagnostic of diabetes mellitus . 
Keep looking and listening for traffic while you cross 
What your child thinks can play an important part in the LEA 's assessment . 
What happens after the assessment ? 
The Tribunal is based in London but , outside the South East , appeals are heard locally . 
The Tribunal is made up of three people . 
One of these will be the Chairman , who will be a lawyer . 
You can also ask up to two people who know your child to speak for you at the Tribunal . 
The Tribunal will look at the evidence and will make a final decision . 
Just because an LEA has not followed the Code will not always mean that their decision was wrong . 
How long do you have to appeal ? 
It is important that the appeal procedure does not delay any special educational help your child needs . 
For this reason , you have to apply to the Tribunal no later than two months after the LEA tell you their decision . 
It is only possible to get the time limit extended in a very few cases . 
You can find out more about the Tribunal in a special booklet . 
What if the Tribunal can not deal with your complaint ? 
A state school . 
He will ask the LEA first if it has any objections to providing the documents . 
If the LEA does , he will consider these when he decides whether or not to order the LEA to release the document . 
Where will my hearing be held ? 
What time will the hearing start ? 
Tribunal hearings will usually be held within normal working hours . 
Your hearing will be fixed for a specific time and will normally be booked to last half a day . 
Chronic Complications End Organ Involvement Diabetes can affect all organs of the body . 
Vascular disorders in a diabetic are seemingly related to type of diabetes and its duration . 
More important though is how Well diabetes has been controlled . 
Many of these complications can be prevented or slowed down by proper blood glucose control . 
Circulatory System Heart and blood vessels work closely together and make up the cardiovascular system . 
Do I have to answer questions at the hearing myself ? 
For example , they may want to ask you about your child 's needs at home . 
You do not have to answer these questions if you do not want to . 
Can my child go to the hearing ? 
Your child can go to the hearing and give evidence . 
However , you should remember that it is unlikely that your child will stay for the whole hearing . 
Can I bring anyone else to support my case ? 
You may bring up to two witnesses to the hearing . 
You must provide their details on the attendance form . 
The panel will only rarely allow extra witnesses . 
You may also bring two other people with you for support but they will not be able to take part in the hearing . 
If the president agrees , he will send you a witness summons for you to give to the person . 
The chairman will explain the procedure to you before the hearing begins . 
The members of the tribunal will want to find out the following from you and the LEA . 
What you think are the relevant facts . 
What conclusions you think the tribunal should come to . 
What you think should now be done for your child . 
The chairman will try to make the procedure as straightforward as possible so everyone can give their point of view . 
The tribunal members will ask questions without using legal or educational jargon . 
If their questions are not clear , you can ask them to explain what they mean before you answer . 
This will give everyone the chance to look at the points as they come up , without getting muddled . 
If you need other breaks , you should ask the chairman . 
There may be rare cases when the hearing lasts longer than this . 
Very occasionally , the tribunal members may need more evidence . 
If this is the case , the chairman will explain what the tribunal needs and will ask you to come back another day . 
This will give you and the LEA time to produce this . 
What expenses can I claim ? 
What expenses can my witnesses claim ? 
Your two main witnesses will also be able to claim travel expenses and should use public transport wherever possible . 
We will also pay a fixed amount for loss of earnings . 
The amounts are similar to those paid for jury service . 
Your representative , if you have one , will not be able to claim expenses from us . 
How do I claim my expenses ? 
We will send you details about claiming expenses when we write to tell you about the arrangements for the hearing . 
How will the tribunal come to a decision ? 
The LEA should attach these to the final statement . 
Generally breast cancer can be treated . 
If it is diagnosed early it can be treated easily and successfully . 
You are asked about your health and asked to remove your upper garments . 
It will be convenient if you wear a skirt , trousers or a sari . 
How is a mammogram taken ? 
Each breast is held between two special plates . 
For some women the pressure of the plates may be painful or inconvenient . 
The mammogram takes a few seconds , and the time to visit the center is barely half an hour . 
Who needs a mammography ? 
Ask your doctor . 
Is mammography safe ? 
The pain during diagnosis or testing for breast cancer is really negligible in comparison to its benefits . 
How will I find out the result ? 
Most women who are called again are not cancer patients . 
Be aware that knowing earlier about cancer leads to a more successful treatment . 
details about breast 
By mammography we can detect cancer in 19 out of 20 women . 
But there is a very , very slight chance that we may not detect breast cancer by mammogram . 
Although you have gone through mammography , whenever you find any cyst or change in your breasts , contact your doctor 
Many diabetics have high blood pressure . 
Small Vessel Diseases Diabetes also causes changesin the walls of small blood vessels , especially those in the eyes and kidneys . 
These changes are closely related to the severity of the diabetes and its duration . 
Studies suggest that small vessel problems may be slowed or prevented by a careful control of blood sugar . 
Kidney Disease Kidney disease and kidney failure can result from a number of causes , some of which are linked to diabetes . 
There is leakage of albumin in the urine . 
Be aware that knowing earlier about cancer leads to a more successful treatment . 
Some important facts to keep in mind 
Make sure your correct address is in your doctor 's records . 
Take their results seriously . 
However , your relatives will normally be told how your organ donation was used and the outcome of the transplant operations . 
Why is it necessary to discuss organ donation with my relatives so soon after my death ? 
For medical reasons , a decision on organ donation can not be left too long . 
Your questions on organ donation Answered . 
If you find that your child has been using drugs what can you do ? 
This is a question with as many different answers as there are families . 
You must make your own decisions but this booklet will help you . 
Dietary Management The word ' diet ' in our culture is associated with restrictions . 
One needs to understand that diets for the diabetics are nutritious and balanced . 
This makes it easier to incorporate these constituents in routine meals . 
More input by personal discussion with the dietician can help improve the diet regimen and meal planning for a diabetic . 
One 's eating habits are based on satiety , available resources for purchase of food items and a social component . 
It may be allowed in diet in small amounts . 
A few artificial sweetners without caloric value are also available . 
One example is aspartum . 
Between 15 and 20 per cent of daily calories should come from proteins . 
Most forms of protein also include some fats too . 
Today , though , when food is processed for the market , most of the natural fibers are removed . 
The fiber itself has no nutritional value , but it provides bulk in the diet . 
The major one is to help speed the digestion of food and the elimination of wastes . 
Foods that are high in fiber include wholegrain breads and cereals , dried peas and beans , and fresh raw vegetables . 
Most prescribed diets contain an ' eat ' list and a ' don ` t eat ' list plus a few sample menus . 
It is sometimes difficult with this information to practically make tasty meals all 365 days of a year . 
Carbohydrates 55 to 65 % of total energy ; sucrose 20gm day . 
Each group contains a long list of foods , together with a recommended portion , called an exchange . 
Therefore , each item on a list is roughly equal to all the others . 
The exchange system is not just for people who need to lose weight . 
Even people with diabetes of normal weight may want help planning varied meals . 
Diets based on the exchange system can be planned for any number of calories a day . 
Each item is one fruit exchange equivalent . 
Meals are planned using each group . 
All six groups work together to provide a balanced diet . 
Flossing daily removes plaque and food particles between teeth and below the gumline . 
Floss around the abutment teeth of a bridge and under artificial teeth using a floss threader . 
You may experience sore or bleeding gums for the first several days you floss . 
If bleeding continues after the first week of flossing , call your dental professional . 
Be sure to follow the special home care instructions provided by your dental professional . 
Biosynthetically prepared human insulins are now available , though expensive . 
Advantages include lesser immunogenicity , lower dose requirement and quicker action . 
Diabetics who are considerably underweight . 
Methods to compensate for any likely increased physical activity . 
Modification of dose during intercurrent disease . 
Such a decision must be left to the treating physician . 
Together with a controlled diet , one will be rewarded by seeing the pounds disappear . 
This type of exercise helps make the entire cardiovascular system work proficiently . 
Considerations One should check with a physician before beginning an exercise program . 
Exercise done in the evening can still have beneficial effects on blood glucose levels the next morning . 
Benefits of exercise are lost when no exercise is performed for a period of three days . 
To be beneficial , exercise must be performed three times a '' week . 
Exercise can result in an increase in appetite and , therefore , calorie intake . 
Persons taking sulphonylurea therapy and who have normal blood glucose values may need to reduce the sulphonylurea dose while on exercise program . 
Disadvantages of being Overweight Excessive weight puts on added burden on heart , lungs , digestive , muscular and articular systems . 
Diseases as coronary artery disease , hypertension , obstructive airway disease , gall stones , arthritis , etc . 
Overall , an overweight person is a poor risk and his her life expectancy is reduced compared to persons of normal weight . 
Relation to Diabetes Being overweight is a major risk factor for diabetes as stated earlier . 
The animal seeks seclusion and shows signs of restlessness by frequently waving the tail and by sitting and standing at short intervals . 
As far as possible , nature should be allowed to have its own course . 
A warm bran mash just before and after calving should be given to the animal . 
As soon as the calf is born , the mother should be encouraged to lick the calf . 
The navel cord of the calf should be tied about 2.5 centimetres away from the body and cut about one centimetre below the ligature . 
If necessary , the calf should be helped to suckle the teats . 
They convert plants and vegetable feeds into milk , meat and working energy for the benefit of man . 
The feed must be satisfying , both qualitatively and quantitatively . 
Cattle like other ruminants have four stomachs . 
The first three are the enlargement of the food pipe . 
They enable an animal to take large quantities of food at a time , to be processed and chewed at leisure . 
The first stomach acts as a store for food which has been cut into small pieces and mixed with saliva . 
The second stomach acts as a store for water . 
In the third stomach , by the help of its folds , the food is squeezed and ground . 
It then passes to the fourth stomach where it is acted upon by digestive juices . 
Underfeeding for a short period takes the cow a much longer period to come back to her normal production . 
Cattle always love to have a variety in their food . 
Mixing of different types of fodders gives better results . 
The feeding stuffs which are laxative in nature should be preferred . 
While introducing change in ration , it should be done gradually to enable the animal to adjust itself to the change . 
The grain ration should be coarsely ground and soaked for some time before feeding . 
As far as possible , the milch animals should be provided with green and succulent fodder all the year round . 
This is the time when she is preparing herself for the coming lactation . 
Stud bulls , during the period of active service , should be given an additional allowance of two kilograms of grain ration . 
The bullocks at medium and heavy work would require daily one and three kilograms of additional grain ration , respectively . 
The actual composition of the grain mixture would largely depend upon the availability of the feeds and their cost . 
When the calf is two to three weeks old , it begins to nibble at hay or soft grass . 
Paddy straw has a low nutritional value . 
It also regulates the body temperature . 
Animals can live much longer without solid food than without water . 
Water forms more than half the weight of a mature animal . 
It is , therefore , essential that sufficient water should be made available to the cattle at all times . 
Clean milk should also be free from organisms which may cause disease . 
Unclean milk becomes sour more quickly than clean milk . 
Once the milk ` becomes unclean , it can not be made clean again . 
Therefore , scrupulous care should be taken to keep the milk free from any contamination . 
The milking shed should always be kept clean . 
For weaning calves successfully , the cow should not be allowed to see the calf at birth . 
The teats nearest the forelimbs give more milk than those nearest the hind limbs . 
The piglets sometimes fight among themselves to secure the fore teats . 
Piglets must get colostrum as their first feed . 
This is secreted by the sow for three or four days after farrowing . 
For the proper health and growth of pigs , plenty of exercise is necessary . 
In the case of fattening stock , however , exercise should be restricted to the minimum necessary to keep the animals healthy . 
A liberal supply of drinking water is especially important in the case of nursing sows . 
Growing pigs are often stunted and show slow growth because of deficiency of mineral matter in their feed . 
Breeding stock need special attention . 
Animals which are in poor condition should be provided additional feed about a week before the starting of the breeding season . 
Whenever possible , green vegtables such as turnips , cabbage , beans and potatoes should be provided . 
Waste from slaughter houses should always be thoroughly cooked before feeding . 
Roots are best given uncooked , but potatoes should never be given raw . 
The use of soyabean should , however , be restricted as it tends to produce soft pork . 
Feeding of fish meal for slaughter stock should be very cautiously done to eliminate the risk of any fish taint in the flesh . 
Fish meal should be eliminated altogether from the ration for about a fortnight prior to slaughter . 
Pigs should not be kept in overcrowded and damp houses . 
Each pen should preferably have an open yard with some natural shade , where the animals can move about freely . 
To keep the pens warm during winter , they should be bedded with dry straw . 
The number and size of pens will , of course , depend upon the number of pigs to be accommodated . 
Leading from the open yards , there should preferably be a common spacious grazing ground on either side with a few shady trees . 
Prevention of Diseases 
Pigs should always be suspected of being ill when they lie down a lot and are disinclined to move when provoked . 
The normal pulse rate varies from 55 to 75 per minute and the respiration ranges from 20 to 30 per minute . 
The carcass of the infected animal should be buried deep with a layer of lime or disposed of by burning . 
Healthy animals , which have been in contact with infected ones , should be got protected with proper vaccination or serum . 
Common Diseases of Pigs 
Foot and mouth is a contagious disease . 
The premises should be thoroughly disinfected and cleaned . 
In severe cases , lesions may occur on all parts of the skin . 
The stable , manger and watering utensils should be thoroughly disinfected . 
The recovered animals should not be returned to work immediately . 
To prevent the spread of this disease , all affected animals should be destroyed . 
Healthy animals should not be allowed to use water and feeding troughs used by affected animals . 
Preventive measures include feeding animals oftener and in smaller quantities . 
Food should be given at regular hours . 
Inferior or damaged food and sudden change in diet should be avoided . 
Horse should not be given full feed just before putting it to fast work and cold water soon after hard work . 
Horses are most susceptible , mules less and donkeys the least . 
Incidence of the disease is very high during the warmer rainy months . 
Respiratory tract , or heart , or both may be involved . 
It can maintain itself on thorny shrubs in a desert , where other herbivores will die of hunger . 
Camel is a ruminant like cattle , sheep and goats . 
Owing to the greater thickness of the skin , the water loss through evaporation is reduced to a minimum . 
The fine hair on the body of the camel act as insulation and help to ward off the excessive atmospheric heat . 
The lips of the camel are covered with tough skin , which enables it to eat hard and thorny plants . 
Due to its long neck , the camel can have easy access to the branches of the high trees . 
Its flesh is eaten in many countries . 
Its milk is considered rich and nourishing drink and is used for human consumption . 
These were 0.94 per cent more than the number in 1977 . 
There are two species of camels . 
The Bactrian camel is an inhabitant of Central Asia and has two humps . 
The second is Arabian or Dromedary camel which has one hump . 
Its coat is soft and comparatively thin . 
This gives her necessary rest to withstand the strain under rugged desert conditions . 
It varies from 375 to 392 days , average being 389 days . 
The oestrum lasts for three to four days . 
Great care should be taken that the calf does not take milk in excessive quantity . 
The calf is weaned at about fifteen months of age . 
Besides the milk required for the calf , . 
In a full lactation she may give up to 2COMMA750 litres or more . 
When properly fed and looked after , a camel may prove to be a potent source of milk in desert regions . 
The camel 's milk has a pleasant taste . 
Butter can be made out of camel 's milk only with difficulty . 
Feeding of Camels The camel is a herbivorous animal and lives by browsing on trees , shrubs and bushes . 
The size of the hump of a camel is a good indication of its nourishment . 
The hump increases in size when ample feed is available . 
The pads of the feet should be hard , nails smooth and polished and paces fast and easy . 
The tail should be long with a good tuft and bristles . 
The age of reproductive maturity in elephants varies from 8 to 15 years . 
Abortions , caused from undue exertion , have been very rarely reported . 
Normally , the act of parturition occupies short time . 
At the time of parturition , the female shows signs of restlessness and great agony . 
She groans and twists the body . 
An hour or so before actual delivery , a discharge may be noticed from the genital passage . 
In comparison with the average cow milk , it contains about eight per cent more solids and over four per cent more fat . 
Elephants ' life is said to be one continuous meal . 
As long as any food is before them , they will go on eating even when their appetite is fully satisfied . 
In the elephant , all food is conveyed to the mouth by the trunk . 
The stomach in elephants is a simple sack unlike that of most herbivora and measures nearly one metre . 
The total length of the intestinal tract is about 30 metres . 
Relative to the enormous size of the animal , the length of the intestinal tract is short . 
It is almost the same as that of the horse or the mule . 
The food ' passes through the intestinal tract of the elephant fairly rapidly . 
This is largely due to the fact that the elephant is not a ruminant . 
The total daily weight of the fresh faeces in elephants is about 110 kilograms . 
These may weigh as much as two kilograms each . 
The faeces give an impression of a mass of chopped hay . 
The digestibility of hay is extremely poor as compared with that of other domestic animals . 
A single discharge of urine in elephants amounts , on an average , to five litres . 
The total volume of urine passed in a day is about fifty litres . 
Its food largely consists of tree leaves , young and tender bamboo shoots and green grass . 
Wherever conditions permit , elephants should be allowed extensive grazing and choice of their own fodder . 
Elephants are fastidious beasts and will not eat all that is placed before them . 
The daily quantity of green fodder required by an elephant depends upon the quantity of dry fodder given . 
Elephant driving is an art . 
A good rider should not ordinarily shout at the animal . 
He should not unnecessarily employ the goad or the driving hook . 
A good rider controls the animal entirely by word of command and the proper application of the knees and feet when necessary . 
Elephants do not like exposure to direct sun . 
Elephants , when working in the sun , should be provided with some cover for the head and neck . 
Exposure to rain , provided the drainage be good , does not seem to do much harm . 
Exposure to cold winds , however , affects their health adversely . 
Rest and sleep is very essential for the health of the animal . 
Regular bathing is most important to keep elephants healthy . 
No animal delights more thoroughly than the elephant in a bath . 
In the wild state , the animals pay daily visits to deep , cool pools in hilly streams and even large rivers . 
For bathing elephants , the water should be deep enough at least to permit immersion of the whole body in the crouching position . 
Elephants should , on no account , be kept in places where facilities for bathing are not available . 
They should preferably be taken into the water for bath shortly after daybreak and at sunset . 
While bathing , the attendant should rub the body over with a soft stone or the husk of a coconut . 
Sickness in Elephants 
In addition , the birds should be provided sufficient greens . 
Baby chicks do not need food of any kind for about 36 hours after hatching . 
During this period , the contents of egg drawn by the chicks furnish the necessary food . 
More recently , artificial hatching by incubators has become popular in India . 
Artificial hatching is economical where large number of eggs are required to be hatched . 
The windows in the room should not be exposed to the direct rays of the sun . 
An adequate amount of humidity inside the machine is necessary to prevent excessive loss of moisture from the eggs . 
In dry weather , humidity can be raised by placing the incubator above special trays filled with water or wet sand . 
The color of the shell is determined by the breed . 
The size of eggs varies considerably between different breeds , but may also vary within the birds of the same breed . 
Poor feeding may also result in eggs with poor shell quality . 
The distribution of proteins and other major nutrients varies in yolk and white portions . 
Feather picking is another common vice among poultry birds . 
Once a bird gets into this habit , it is difficult to prevent him from pecking his own feathers or of other birds . 
The main causes responsible for this vice are faulty diet , close confinement , or mites which cause irritation . 
In a flock , certain cocks develop the habit of showing special affinity towards certain hens and mate with them only . 
This results in the production of infertile eggs ' by other hens . 
This fault can be prevented by changing the cocks at short intervals . 
Disease prevention in fowls is a far more important measure than disease cure . 
Equipment , feeding and watering utensils should be thoroughly cleaned every day . 
The normal respiration rate is 15 to 30 per minute . 
The average rate of heart beat is 300 per minute . 
Worms retard the growth of birds and reduce their egg laying capacity . 
External parasites such as lice , ticks , mites and fleas cause great annoyance to poultry birds and affect their productive efficiency . 
It affects birds of all ages , but young chickens are more susceptible than the adults . 
Sometimes the eyes and nose are covered by a yellowish cheesy discharge . 
In acute cases , the bird dies in convulsions . 
The color of the drake is black at the neck and back . 
The duck is of Khaki color which develops into gray when one year old . 
The maximum number of eggs are laid during the second year . 
The eggs are of white color . 
The average weight of an egg is nearly 70 grams . 
General Management of Ducks 
The drake can be distinguished from the duck by the curly feather in his tail . 
The drake has an inaudible thin voice . 
The voice of the duck is very full . 
The general management of ducks is similar to that as for the chickens . 
They are quite safe at five weeks to go into the grass run and range house . 
The roof of the house may be of any kind , but the floor should be pucca , preferably cemented . 
Respiration per minute varies from 15 to 48 . 
The normal rate of heart beat is 120 to 160 per minute . 
When white and brown backed geese are interbred , they do not inherit any mixed coloring , and the progeny shows only one type . 
The breast is light brown and the throat is white . 
The white goose is white all over the body . 
The average egg production is 75 eggs in the first year . 
The eggs weigh nearly 85 grams each . 
The color of the egg is white mottled with brown . 
The body weight is 11 kilograms for the young torn and 7 kilograms for the turkey hen of this breed . 
It has low fertility and hatchability . 
The reproductive ability of the turkey is relatively low , particularly with heavier breeds . 
Hatchability is also low in heavier varieties . 
The female commences laying eggs about the middle of March . 
Turkey hens generally lay about 70 eggs during their first laying season . 
When the turkey females reach eight to nine months of age , artificial lights are used to stimulate egg production in them . 
During the breeding season , the average fertility with artificial insemination runs between 70 and 80 per cent . 
Turkey eggs take 28 days to hatch . 
In the Broad Breasted Bronze breed , eggs weighing over 80 grams are selected for hatching . 
Turkeys mature when three years old . 
For maximum profit , turkeys should be marketed by the time they are 20 to 26 weeks of age . 
Fat grade in the turkey is judged by the thickness of the fold of the breast skin . 
Many changes have taken place since then . 
However , the most significant took place in the the 17th century when Western medicine ascribed thesweetness of urine in diabetes to sugar . 
Others find them a nuisance and would prefer not to receive them . 
It may take up to three months for the unwanted mail to stop arriving . 
See page 94 for the address . 
Many companies now use the telephone to promote their goods and services . 
See page 94 . 
If you are registered with the Telephone Preference Service it is an offence for a company to continue to make unsolicited calls to you . 
If , however , you do decide you want to buy one , check the wording carefully . 
Make sure you know exactly what it does and does not cover before you sign . 
Do not choose a firm just because it guarantees its services . 
If an exclusion clause is unfair , it is legally void and can not be used against you . 
Generally , only a court can decide if a contract term is unfair . 
There is a code of practice covering doorstep and party plan selling . 
The address is on page 91 . 
If you want to cancel , act quickly . 
Send letters by recorded special delivery so you have confirmation of the delivery . 
If not , walk away . 
If the car has already been inspected , ask to see the report . 
Buying a used car privately 
If you buy privately , you should expect to pay less as the seller does not have the expenses of a dealer . 
Does the seller really own the car ? 
Check the MOT certificate if the car is more than three years old . 
If possible , take an expert with you if you do not know much about cars . 
Study the auctioneer 's conditions of business . 
You buy as seen and therefore have fewer rights of redress other than as set out in the conditions of sale . 
You have little opportunity to check the past history and mechanical condition of the car . 
Be extra careful if you are buying from a temporary auction center . 
Would you be able to contact the auctioneer after the sale ? 
Find a good garage . 
Does the garage look organised and efficient , and have helpful staff ? 
This will ensure that the trader can not say in court that you accepted the repair was satisfactory because you paid the bill . 
See page 23 for how to complain . 
Furniture and furnishings 
If you are buying furniture , shop around and compare goods and prices to get the best deal . 
Get information from leaflets , catalogues and labels . 
Check that upholstered furniture carries a label stating that it meets fire safety requirements . 
If you are buying a bed , lie on it for a time to see that it is comfortable . 
Do not pay the whole cost until all the work has been done to your satisfaction . 
The conciliator , whose decisions are binding on the retailer , will try to settle the matter to everyone 's satisfaction . 
If you are not happy with the decision , you can take court action , using the conciliator 's findings if you wish . 
Electrical manufacturers are constantly developing their products as technology advances . 
But are you sure you are going to need all those extra features ? 
Familiarise yourself with the instructions and controls . 
Some manufacturers provide telephone help lines to help sort out problems . 
Find out if there is a guarantee , what it covers , what is excluded and how long it is for . 
Often you will be asked if you want to buy an extended warranty . 
Check the procedures for making a claim . 
Will the warranty pay for repairs up front or will you have to pay first , and then claim the money back afterwards ? 
Keep details of any guarantee or warranty with your original receipt and any service or repair documents ; they may be needed later . 
It is a good idea to make a note of serial numbers for future reference . 
Dealing with faults and repairs 
Telephone the shop if you are unsure . 
If it still does not work , complain . 
greater consistency in analysis and the development of solutions 
The White Paper is the start of the process , not the end . 
It will provide a solid basis for the development of consumer policy in the future . 
Skin infections are more likely , and cuts may be slow to heal . 
It is understandable , therefore , that many people may not think of them as something to see a doctor about . 
Moreover , about a third of all Type II diabetics have no symptoms at all . 
Usually they are just over 40 and overweight . 
With or without symptoms , diabetes is very easy to diagnose . 
Depending , of course , on your own interests . 
For information on training , see ' what experience and qualifications do I need ? ' 
NVQ Level 3 in Early Years Care and Education or 
You could then progress to a managerial or supervisory position on the job . 
This is available via distance learning through the National Extension College . 
As a Trainee you would usually begin by working towards a Level 2 qualification to become an Assistant Playworker . 
You may then choose to progress towards a supervisory role by gaining a Level 3 qualification . 
The NVQ Level 4 in Early Years Care and Education or 
For contact details and further information , turn to ' Where next ? ' 
WHAT WILL I EARN ? 
Or contact the Early Years National Training Organisation . 
Details are in ' Where next ? ' 
Contact them for information . 
You 'll find their details on the enclosed card . 
IT 'S HARD WORK BUT IT 'S GREAT FUN AND VERY SATISFYING . '' 
WHERE NEXT ? 
You will find details on the enclosed card . 
Your local Children 's Information Service will have information about local support in becoming a childminder . 
These factors do not seem to be the cause of diabetes . 
Family History The most common predisposing factor is a history of diabetes in the family . 
Being overweight seems to increase the body 's demand for insulin . 
Age Diabetes can affect people of all ages but the chances of its developing increase with age . 
For example , which word is the odd one in a list like cat , mat , dog , sat ? 
It is a great way of showing that every word begins with a letter . 
Some may want to get every word exactly right while other children will race to the end of a story . 
Try to respond to your child 's needs and let them read at their own pace . 
Eventually , you will know in which ways your child needs more help . 
Some children may need to slow down and look more carefully at each word . 
Others will need to move the story along and not worry so much about their mistakes . 
If they get stuck , encourage them to use all the available information and everything they know to make a guess . 
They should look at the pictures and remember what has happened in the story . 
Their ability to predict and guess accurately will gradually improve . 
Make the most of books your child brings home from school . 
There are many ways in which you can continue to play a very important role in the development of your child 's reading . 
Read a story together , then read it out again , missing out words . 
A different word that means the same thing may be suggested . 
That 's good . 
It shows that your child is thinking about the story and words . 
If they read or write out the part they know , you can finish it letter by letter . 
Get your child to put the pieces back together the right way round . 
When your child reads and gets a word wrong , let them finish the line before you put them right . 
Children often realise what the word should be , go back and correct themselves . 
If your child doesn ` t know a word in a sentence , get them to say ' something ' instead . 
They can often work it out from other words around it . 
Try to keep cool ! 
Choosing books for children can be a huge pleasure , or you might not know where to start . 
You don ` t want to put them off having fun when they 're learning . 
Don ` t worry if your child crosses words out when they 're writing . 
Lots of children try out different spellings until they feel a word looks right . 
Get them to try out words on scrap paper , then put the word in its proper place when they are happy with it . 
Write a story that your child has told you . 
They can learn from watching you write and can help by suggesting letters and spellings . 
Help them to make their own labels , notices , cards and books . 
If they want to write a story , help them to think of what it 's about , what happens and how it ends . 
Ask questions about the characters in the story . 
Children need help in looking up words , following alphabetical order and guessing how a word may start . 
Words are everywhere 
Some more ideas to help your child to read when you haven ` t got a book . 
At breakfast time 
Look at the words on cereal packets , milk and fruit juice cartons . 
Get them to see how many words they can make out of the letters . 
Going to the shops 
Some shops still have a sign over the door that says what they sell . 
You 'll see advertising posters and place names . 
Your child can help you find things in the supermarket by reading out what 's in the aisles . 
Video boxes usually tell you the story . 
On a bus or train trip 
Place names on the front of the bus or train , posters on the bus or tube . 
Even the ticket is worth reading to a child ! 
Help your child read about other places . 
Again , there seems to be an erroneous practice to depend for diagnosis of diabetes on a single urine test or spot blood test . 
Practical Point For every known diabetic , there is one unknown . 
Magnitude of diabetes mellitus in India is not exactly known ; figures quoted have varied from 2 . 
The variation observed in results is due to different methods used , criteria for diagnosis not being uniform . 
Does it matter ? 
Concentrate on getting one letter right at a time . 
Your local library is a great source of free reading material and a librarian will be available to suggest books you may enjoy . 
If you think you would like to learn to read and write better so you can help your child more , why not ; 
ask at their school about getting help 
National Literacy Strategy 
The Government 's ' National Literacy Strategy ' aims to raise standards of reading and writing for all children . 
In India , the average male weight is 55 kg and the female , 48.5 kg . 
Rural urban difference in prevalence of diabetes has also been observed from many other geographic areas . 
the school thinks your child has special educational needs 
Type I and Type II are two main variations in presentation of diabetes . 
There is an absolute deficiency of insulin in such instances due to destruction of beta cells . 
This breakdown of fats causes some acid radicals to appear in the blood and urine . 
This can be the school they already go to . 
Special schools usually take children with particular types of special needs . 
Many ordinary schools also have special provision for children with particular needs . 
These are acid radicals and inducemetabolicketoacidosis . 
nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain ; 
Diagnosis is possible by examining urine for ketones ; this is possible by a chemical test or testape or ketostik . 
This is a serious condition and if not attended to immediately can be fatal . 
get urine tested for ketones and blood for glucose every four to six hours ; 
have somebody around to assist and watch one 's condition . 
This vast network of blood vessels is about 70COMMA000 miles long . 
The functioning of the various organs is affected due to this reduction in blood circulation . 
The arteries that are most affected by arteriosclerosis are those that lead to the heart , brain and legs . 
Arteriosclerosis comes on slowly and progresses with age . 
All calls are free of charge from anywhere in the UK . 
What is Breast Awareness ? 
Breast awareness is a part of general body awareness . 
It is a process of getting to know your own breasts and becoming familiar with their appearance . 
Learning how your breasts feel at different times will help you to know what is normal for you . 
The Normal Breast 
In some women , the breasts at this time feel tender and lumpy , especially near the armpits . 
Normal breasts feel soft , less firm and not lumpy . 
Know what is normal for you 
Any puckering or dimpling of the skin . 
Discomfort or pain in one breast that is different from normal , particularly if new and persistent . 
This is very important if new . 
Nipple change . 
Nipple discharge , new for you and not milky . 
Bleeding or moist reddish areas which don ` t heal easily . 
Know what to look and feel for 
What to Do if You Find a Change 
There can be many reasons for changes in the breast . 
If you are aware of any change in your breast from what is normal for you , tell your doctor without delay . 
Remember , you are not wasting anyone ? 
If there is a cancer present , the sooner it is reported , the more simple treatment is likely to be . 
Inquire about this from your doctor . 
The gap depends upon your local health authority . 
Who performs the test ? 
Generally your doctor will examine you . 
The examination may be done in Family Planning Clinic Well woman clinic . 
The leg muscles may get cramps , weakness or discomfort on walking . 
High Blood Pressure As blood flows through the body , it puts pressure on the inside walls of thearteries . 
For example , it rises after eating a heavy meal , or due to severe exertion or on being emotionally upset . 
Occasional brief periods of increased blood pressure may not be a problem . 
However , consistently high blood pressure can affect the heart , the brain and the kidney . 
When blood pressure is high , blood is pushed against the artery walls with extra force . 
The heart has to work harder now and it increases in size . 
Frequently you will hear that the result is OK and will be called for your next smear text after 3 to 5 years . 
Ask your doctor or nurse why you need to repeat the smear test . 
There may be many reasons . 
Generally there is an insufficient sample to test in the laboratory ; this is a common reason . 
Or there may be a slight infection . 
Observe minutely and note any changes in your breast that you didn ` t see or feel before . 
When you are ready for a bath , lower your arms and stand in front of a mirror and observe repeatedly and minutely 
Raise your arms over your head and observe again minutely . 
Put your hands on your hips and press them until the muscles of your breast become irritated and tensile . 
Observe minutely all aspects of your breasts from all sides . 
Observe them from downward ; bow forwards and observe the shape of the breasts . 
Do you observe anything ? 
Be cautious . 
Check the shape first 
If one breast is larger than the other then it is abnormal . 
Do your nipples appear normal and are their location normal ? 
If you feel well and right your breast will be normal . 
Change in shape 
is there any cyst or hardness ? 
veins which are swelled up more than normal 
the surrounding area of the nipple is become reddish with some itching 
any kind of change causing irritation or excitement 
any change which you felt new that you had never felt before 
How do I test my breast ? 
While bathing , rub some soap on your palm and massage it onto your breast ; it can slip easily . 
Keep your fingers close together and straight , and lose your finger on the right side . 
Push the breast gently and carefully . 
Make sure your breasts are pear shaped and their nipples are oriented to your arms . 
Check each part of your breast , towards the arms and beneath the nipples too . 
Any problems ? 
If you feel any new change or any other problem then consult your doctor or nurse . 
Breast testing by Mammography 
By doing this we can diagnose the minute changes in breast tissue which can cause cancer or an initial stage of cancer . 
Most changes in breasts are not causes of cancer . 
any change in your breast 
continuous watery secretion from vagina 
bleeding between menstrual cycle 
bleeding during intercourse 
bleeding after menopause 
A summary of the main points from the department of health publication 
You will have to do some planning and preparation before developing the system . 
You must keep them up to date with changes as the system grows and develops . 
Don ` t try and introduce the system at once . 
Set it up for each step of your operation , and make sure it is working properly before moving on the next step . 
To set up an Assured Safe Catering system , you will need to decide how many people will be needed . 
This will depend on the size of your business ; in a small business , this may be only one or two . 
In larger businesses , it may be necessary to set up a team . 
You should include people who can recognise hazards , control measures and the critical control points without too much difficulty . 
This means that they will need to understand each step of the catering operation as well as food hygiene principles . 
You may also need to bring other people on to the team , depending on which step in the operation you are looking at . 
A simplified example is shown on the next page . 
Once the diagram has been drawn up , you will need to check that all the foods produced in your operation are covered . 
Treatment is geared for the type and extent of metabolic disturbance . 
Milk and milk products have carbohydrates , protein , and some fat . 
Between 55 and 65 per cent of caloric requirements should come from carbohydrates . 
Therefore , sugar quickly builds up in the bloodstream and may spill into the urine . 
In fact , this is why some people whose diabetes is poorly controlled often feel tired and hungry . 
Most of the daily carbohydrates should be from coarse cereals or complex carbohydrates . 
In this proportion no worsening effect on glucose tolerance is observed . 
Pregnancy in a diabetic must be planned . 
any diabetic , especially when treatment is neglected . 
gradually over daystakes more time . 
However , the fact that there was no legal obstacle to his becoming a barrister was enough encouragement to Badruddin . 
Perhaps the first time that he did so was when he made up his mind to try to become a barrister . 
Rapid industrial development also led to the continuous expansion of urban population needing more and more food . 
This capital was , moreover , increasingly concentrated in banks and corporations and trusts and cartels . 
Outlets had to be found for the investment of this capital . 
The struggle for division of the world into colonies was now transformed into a struggle for the redivision of the colonial world . 
This was frankly recognised by contemporary British officials and statesmen . 
India also performed another important function in the British scheme for empire . 
The Indian army was the chief instrument for the expansion and consolidation of British power in Africa and Asia . 
It also served along with the British navy as the chief instrument for the defense of the British empire on a global scale . 
The result was a costly standing army that absorbed nearly 52 per cent of the Indian revenues in 1904 . 
The transformation of India , begun during the preceding period , continued during the third stage . 
Growing taxation in a stagnant economy invariably carries with it the penalty of popular revolt . 
Above all , Indian economy and social development were completely subordinated to British economy and social development . 
Indian economy was integrated into the world capitalist economy in a subordinate position and with a peculiar international division of labor . 
In fact , the two processes were interdependent in terms of cause and effect . 
The entire structure of economic relations between India and Britain involving trade , finance and technology continuously developed India 's colonial dependence and underdevelopment . 
The selfish policies followed by the British rulers in India affected most India agriculture and her agrarian classes and her trade and industries . 
The impact of the policies in the cultural and social fields was also very powerful . 
But these new features did not represent a change towards modernisation or in the right direction . 
Whatever the name of the system , it was the peasant cultivators who suffered . 
The new landlords and zamindars had even less of a link with land than the old zamindars . 
Instead of taking the trouble to organise a machinery for rent collection , they merely sublet their rights to intermediate rent receivers . 
The impact of British rule thus led to the evolution of a new structure of agrarian relations that was extremely regressive . 
The new system did not at all permit the development of agriculture . 
New social classes appeared at the top as well as at the bottom of the social scale . 
The new pattern was neither capitalism nor feudalism , nor was it a continuation of the old Mughal arrangement . 
It was a new structure that colonialism evolved . 
Agricultural practices remained unchanged . 
Better types of implements , good seeds and various types of manures and fertilizers were not introduced at all . 
The composition and character of the foreign trade was unbalanced . 
The country was flooded with manufactured goods from Britain and forced to produce and export the raw material Britain and other foreign countries needed . 
Last but not least , the foreign trade affected the internal distribution of income adversely . 
Moreover , India was entirely dependent on the imperialist world in the field of technology . 
No technological research was carried on in the country . 
To sum up , India underwent a commercial transformation and not an industrial revolution . 
This gave rise to wide regional disparities in income patterns , economic development , and social stratification . 
The per capita income was low and unemployment widespread . 
Twenty of the years from 1860 to 1908 were years of famine . 
According to one estimate , nearly 29 million people died during famines from 1854 to 1901 . 
Before that India was no more backward than the countries of the Western Europe . 
Britain subordinated the Indian economy to its own economy and determined the basic social trends in India according to her own needs . 
Modern ideas spread through many channels ; political parties , the press , pamphlets and the public platform . 
This role is , however complex and full of contradictions . 
If the foreign government neglected primary and school education , it turned hostile to higher education early , that is , soon after 1858 . 
Otherwise its structure and pattern , aims , methods , curricula and content were all designed to serve colonialism . 
A few other aspects of Indian education arising out of its colonial character should be noted . 
One was the complete neglect of modern technical education which was a basic necessity for the rise and development of modern industry . 
The total disruption of old land and rural relationships upset the caste balance in the countryside . 
In the beginning the policies of the colonial state also encouraged social reform . 
Efforts were made to modernize Indian society in order to enable the economic penetration of the country and the consolidation of British rule . 
They blindly imitated Western life and culture instead of assimilating their positive , humanist , and scientific features . 
They did not realise that modern ideas and culture could be best imbibed by integrating them into Indian culture . 
Badruddin was left to accost the mild old man who was no teacher , and a total stranger . 
In actual age he was still a boy when he went England to become a barrister . 
For some years before that he had thought carefully about his future career . 
He had worked out his chances , not only for qualifying for the Bar , but his chances of a successful practice . 
His brother Camruddin was the first Indian solicitor , and he could depend on his help in getting work . 
Others held up the imitators of Western culture to ridicule and opposed the very introduction of modern ideas and culture . 
They believed that the best way to preserve cultural autonomy was to look inwards once again . 
British rule brought the entire geographical area of the country under a single administration . 
It also unified the country by introducing a uniform system of law and government . 
Different classes and groups of Indian society gradually discovered that the British rule was hampering their develoment in all basic aspects . 
The peasantry was perhaps the chief victim of British colonialism . 
The Government took away a large part of its produce in the form of land revenue and other taxes . 
It was soon caught in the firm clutches of the landlord and the moneylender . 
The peasant found himself master neither of his land nor of the crops he produced ; nor even of his own labor power . 
The result was that the average worker lived below the margin of subsistence . 
In particular , employment prospects became increasingly bleak for those who were forced to drop out from the universities without getting a B . 
The Hindu and Sikh communalists were equally willing to play into the hands of imperialism . 
The Individual Disobedience Movement When Gandhiji , afer his return protested to Willingdon , he was met by an adamant attitude . 
Congress , however , was still , provided the Viceroy lifted the ordinances and permitted the Congress to continue the campaign for Purna Swaraj . 
This was an attitude quite distant from the spirit of the Lahore Congress . 
Government disregarded the threat . 
Now jail beatings on political prisoners and attempts to treat them as common criminals became more common than ever before . 
In the 1930 's the Congress became more and more firm in its stand against imperialism in any part of the world . 
The Congress openly supported national movements in the countries of Asia and Africa . 
By this time fascism was emerging in Italy , Germany and Japan as a new threat to democracy . 
In its own fanatical way fascism was one type of imperialism . 
It was also racialist in concept . 
In 1937 Japan attacked China . 
In this he spoke not only for the Congress but for the entire nation . 
Nehru stressed that India would not participate in any war between imperialist powers . 
Then , they took her to a celestial palace and laid her upon a golden bed . 
A white elephant with a lotus in its trunk approached and after going round her three times struck her side . 
Learned Brahmins interpreted the dream as a sign that Mahamaya would soon give birth to a great and noble son . 
'' He will be a world famous teacher , '' said the third . 
'' Only if he renounces the world to become an ascetic , '' added a fourth . 
Fame as a teacher did not interest Shuddhodhana . 
He wanted his only son to follow the Kshatriya tradition and become a world conqueror . 
So Shuddhodhana decided to try and keep his son always happy and only surrounded him with what was beautiful . 
He built three palaces . 
One was for summer ; it was lined with tall trees for shade which caught the cool breeze . 
Another was for winter , with open avenues bright with sunlight and warmth . 
Yet another was for the rainy season with spacious halls for indoor games and sports . 
If England was the workshop in which Badruddin was collecting the tools of his future career , what else did he pick up there ? 
At the same time there were many things about the English that he learned to like and respect . 
According to the custom of the time Yashodhara 's father organised an archery contest to select a suitable husband for his daughter . 
Then aiming high , they hit distant targets with remarkable accuracy . 
But Siddhartha did not allow himself to be tempted and continued his meditation . 
But they too had no effect on him . 
He continued to be lost in deep meditation . 
'' Here comes Gautama our old teacher , '' observed one of them . 
'' He who left us for the worldly life , '' scoffed another . 
At that time there lived in Varanasi a wealthy young man named Yasa . 
The Buddha took great interest in the development of the Sangha . 
With Kashyapa five hundred of his disciples joined the Sangha . 
Soon afterwards , the Buddha visited Rajagriha , the Magadhan capital , accompanied by the monks who were his followers . 
So pleased was the king with the teachings of the Master that he exclaimed , '' I have now been blessed with everything . 
The Buddha was seated on an elevated platform . 
The Buddha accepted the gift . 
'' What does he teach ? '' 
'' This is the truth that I have been searching for , '' exclaimed Sariputra . 
Within a few years of his Enlightenment , the Buddha 's fame reached his old father also . 
He wanted him to come to Kapilavastu , even if for a short visit . 
The minister and his men arrived when the Buddha was preaching to a large gathering of people . 
He became a prominent member of the Sangha . 
As a girl she had become a follower of the Buddha along with her father and his entire household . 
When she grew up , Vishakha was married to Purnavarthana , the son of another rich banker , Migara , also of Shravasti . 
'' Don ` t you know that he has made many young men renounce the world and become monks . 
Finally Migara agreed . 
'' I do not ask , sister , for your family or caste . 
If you have any water left , give some to me . 
The Buddha did not recognise the division of society into different castes . 
'' In that case it would belong to the man who offered it , '' answered the young man . 
'' As the echo belongs to the sound and the shadow to the substance , evil overtakes the evildoer . '' 
'' So they do , Lord , '' said the disciple . 
Gautami went from house to house in search of the handful of mustard seed . 
He begged the Buddha not to leave him and cried like a child , '' Who will guide us when you are gone ? '' 
My teachings and the Sangha will be your guide , '' the Buddha consoled him . 
Here he asked Ananda to spread a clean sheet in the shade of two Sal trees . 
There he rested for some time . 
Afterwards he met the Malla nobles who had come to pay their respects to the learned teacher . 
His real enjoyment and exercise was in riding . 
It was his custom to walk part of the way home every evening while his carriage was sent ahead to wait for him . 
While Badruddin was a student in England , his own eyes and health began to fail . 
By next year , however , he was ready to go back to work , and he resumed reading for the Bar . 
Even the drum is notalways restricted to music . 
I The discussions so far reveal the necessity for a major definition of a musical instrument . 
There is an Oraon song in which a boy says , I On the fort hill , I have seen beans spreading andripe . 
Similarly , literature from all other languages could be examined for a fuller study . 
The data are vast and varied , extending in time and space . 
Among the earliest evidences of this kind are finds from the Indus valley scripts and heiroglyphs . 
All this is too big a storehouse for any one person to handle . 
These motley forms have posed a big problem of classification . 
How many kinds of instruments are there ? 
Are they to be grouped according to the material they are made of ? 
Or , should the method of playing be the criterion ? 
Today , Bharata 's four major groups are accepted . 
However , for technical purposes a detailed depth classification is necessary . 
The kuzhal was a flute and the maddalam a drum . 
As early as 200 B C Bharata described in detail the kutapa for his drama . 
We still have a number of such ensembles of various types and sizes with us . 
The nayyandi melam of Tamil Nadu and the karaga mela of Karnataka are also very popular . 
Besides these there are temple kutapa such as the ashladasa vadya which may not really have eighteen instruments as the name implies . 
Instruments in the police and armed-forces armed forces are almost entirely foreign . 
It reveals the highly eclectic nature of Indian society and the hazards of a journey in the monorail of textbook study . 
Our society , like any other , today is the confluence of many tributaries and should be viewed as such . 
IT is not unreasonable to assume that idiophones might have been the oldest musical instruments used by mankind . 
Hands are clapped , or thighs and hips are struck with the hands to accompany dance and music . 
Immediately , a ghana vadya has been created and instruments such as clappers , castanets , danda , bells and cymbals developed . 
Ghana vadya , as they are usually constructed , are not capable of producing definite pitches that are required for creating a melody . 
That is why you will not find many of them in classical music . 
However , there are exceptions like the jaltarang and the kastha tarang which , within severe limits , are adequate for melodicmusic also . 
Each dancer holds in one hand the kolu or dandiya and with the other hand a rope or a long ribbon . 
Under each kastha a tube of determined length and diameter is attached , to give proper resonance and volume to the sound . 
In China they have the yu in the shape of a tiger ; its spine is notched . 
The dancers , who were of both sexes , smeared themselves with holy ashes and wore rudrakasha bead garlands . 
However , the raponi of Assam is really a sukti vadya . 
It is simply a bamboo stick , not a tube , of a meter 's length with serrations along it . 
Excellent sculptures of kirikittaka players can be seen in a number of Hoysala temples of Karnataka , of about the 13th Century . 
There are some bells where the rim is stroked producing a continuous high pitched sound . 
It is quite possible that the first bell shaped instruments were dried fruit shells and floral buds . 
It is a dried fruit and a few of them are tied together and shaken in rhythm . 
The Baigas of Madhya Pradesh tie a set of dried pumpkins to their waists when dancing . 
The kaniyari fruit is used by the Oraons . 
It is never beaten on the mouth . 
Further , by manipulating his abdomen , the player can elicit various volumes and tonal colors out of the ghatam . 
Also , it would have been observed that few of them are melodic , most of them are rhythm keepers . 
There are two crafts which have been associated with and have generally determined the evolution of drums . 
This could be covered with skin on one or two sides producing a drum . 
Perhaps , the earliest of such instruments were very large and stood vertically on the ground like trees . 
This being the case , it is obvious that only the top face could have been covered . 
There was another classification based on shape . 
The yava or barleyi shaped drums were also barrel drums and they may have been similar to the present day mridanga . 
Even today large instruments of this kind are found in various areas with a number of tribes and rural groups . 
When Hanuman is caught and punished by Ravana , the king 's orders are announced to the sound of the conch and the bheri . 
One face was played with the hand and the other with a kona . 
In the simpler varieties , both drums are made of wood . 
They are the Sri khole of Bengal and the pung of Manipur . 
From Bengal it seems to have traveled further east to Assam and Manipur , as also to Orissa . 
The body could be of wood or burnt clay with the two heads made of multiple membranes as in the mridanga . 
The pung used in Manipur 's dance and music is smaller than the Sri khole . 
This is typically , and most likely exclusively , met within the nagasvaram or melam ensembles . 
The change in tension so achieved alters the pitch of the parchments and very attractive tonal effects can thus be produced . 
The mouth itself has two thin midribs of coconut palm nailed across it and they add a pleasing buzz to the sound . 
This is also connected to the shoulder strap from which the instrument hangs . 
The player now employs a well practised manipulation of the drum . 
While beating it with a stick in one hand , the other hand is inserted under the threads . 
We shall group them all as qne whole family and study some representative members ! 
The drumseems to have been popular and venerated as well , aswould have been gathered from earlier references to it inthis study . 
The dundubhi is also prominent as a martialinstrument in the two epics and almost all subsequentliterature . 
The tribal dhumsa of the Santals is ahuge instrument made of thin metal sheets with a narrowbottom and a very wide mouth . 
The nissan which is as old as the Ramayana is found in Gujaratand Rajasthan , though in very different forms . 
References to the nissan occur also in medieval Hindi poetry and in a musical work written in the thirteenth century . 
It wasthen a big metal bowl of either bronze , copper or iron , covered with buffalo hide and beaten with sticks . 
The dundubhi is kept also in temples , to be beaten during worship or to announce prayers . 
The nagara is a very familiar drum through out north India and it is quite possible that its name is imported from West Asia . 
Usually there are two conical bowl drums struck with sticks , the pair being called nagara or naqara . 
The tabla is invariably made of wood and is a vessel broader at the bottom and narrower at the top . 
This ring of leather known in Hindi as the chanti or the kinara , is stitched firmly to aleather braid , the gajra . 
Also , the bowl is of metal , though formerly it used to be of wood or clay . 
In ancient musicological literature one often comes across the term tripushkara which is interpreted in different ways . 
A mridanga with three heads has been noticed in the sculptures of Hampi , in Karnataka , the capital of the Vijayanagara Empire . 
The Dilvara temple in Rajasthan , belonging to the eleventh century , has a relief showing a musician playing a four headed drum . 
The panchamukha vadya , seen in some southern temple sculptures , is played today in a few places during worship . 
These simple mechanisms obtain in Western drums also . 
This defect is got over by numerous contrivances in the more advanced membranophones like the pakhavaj , the mridanga and the tabla . 
The first step is to stretch the skin uniformly . 
In classical music texts the name for these is patakshara or merely pata or akshara . 
One of them , played by the worshippers of Mariyamma in south India , is the burburi which is a cylindrical two faced instrument . 
Which were the early types and where in the world have they been found ? 
Where and when in India did the first sushira vadya come into existence ? 
This was the first flute . 
Both these instruments have very strong phallic significances in primitive as well as later civilized societies . 
In some aboriginal human clans if a woman saw a trumpet she was killed , because it was a male . 
In New Guinea , for instance , some flutes of nearly six meters length have a special function in certain sexual rites . 
It is for this reason it is even questionable whether instruments of this class can be called wind instruments at all . 
The materials that suggest themselves to us are animal horns , dried bones , conches , bamboo and hollow shoots of trees . 
We shall see how each of these has been put to use as a wind instrument . 
It is a small bamboo length , of approximately fifteen centimeters , one end of which is open and the other end closed . 
Obviously only very simple tunes can be played on the instrument . 
The player creates melodies by closing and opening the finger holes on the body of the instrument . 
His correctness , formality and seriousness did not leave him even in his home , or among his family . 
He may not charge either a very large fee , or a very small one . 
These traditions Badruddin helped to establish in the Bombay High Court , both by his own example and by putting moral pressure on others . 
Two of his characteristics have been especially commented upon by many people . 
Also our artists and audiences still prefer the bamboo flute , because of its mellow quality , to metallic tubes . 
The word venu was advisedly used here to show how this and many other instruments get their names . 
In this case , it means just bamboo and the connection between the flute and the word is patent . 
Ancient sculptures and murals , as can be expected , abound with illustrations of this instrument . 
There is one more single beating reed that needs our notice , even though it is not found in all parts of the country . 
This is the pepa of Assam played at the Bihu or spring dances . 
It consists of two bamboo pipes nearly twenty centimeters long , tied together with finger holes . 
One end has the reed which is either covered by a bamboo tube or is left bare . 
This end is put into the mouth and blown to produce the sound . 
The other end of each pipe bears a buffalo horn or a metal flare to serve as a megaphone . 
Here also leather flaps operate between the air box and the bellows so that air can get in and not get out . 
There is thus one key to every reed and only the notes needed can be played by depressing the related keys . 
He could never be ' turned aside from his chosen line of defense or attack or be tempted into side issues . 
He could never be deflected into wasting time or energy on weak arguments . 
He knew that one sound solid reason , especially if it is based on principle , can be irrefutable . 
In one case Badruddin was defending a young Indian who was accused of trying to bribe a British ICS officer . 
This was a serious charge , and the young man had already been found guilty by the lower court . 
The harmonium is not constructed to generate such razor sharp differences . 
In other words , on a harmonium tones lose their individual uniqueness and become one in a crowd . 
TATA vadya are so many in number and variety that it is futile to search for their beginnings and sometimes even classification becomes complicated . 
A very common musical situation in which the tuntune is found is the tarnasha play and povada ballad singing of Maharashtra . 
A tiny thin bridge of wood or bamboo is placed on the resonator under the string . 
The instrument is a companion to the beggar and the bhajan singers . 
It is then cut to the required shape and the desiccated inner pulp removed . 
The cut open part is now covered with a thin plank of wood and the resonator is ready . 
The process of fretting reduced all tonal measurements to their positions on the string . 
The most popular hypothesis is that bow shaped polychords , called harps in English could be traced to the hunter 's bow . 
In other words , it is a struck bow . 
In later literature this instrument is generally equated with the sata tantri veena which means the . 
Some are of the opinion that the vana veena might have been the prototype of the Kashmiri santoor which will be described later . 
Animal sinew was also used for similar purposes and these have been replaced by metal wires in most cases . 
It may be recalled that the Tamil word for tata vadya was narampu karuvi , and narampu means animal gut . 
The major stringed instrument described here was the yazh . 
But was it different from the contemporary Aryan polychord veenas described earlier ? 
In some literary examples the words yazh and veena are used in juxtaposition and are used in the same context . 
This is more so when we see that even the constructional details of the yazhs and the Sanskrit veenas were almost the same . 
The makara yazh , then , might have traveled to south India either directly from west Asia or from that area via Greece . 
Tamil Nadu had also the adi yazh , the first yazh . 
It was said to have one thousand strings arranged in five octaves with two hundred in each ! 
How far this was a real instrument and how far the number ' one thousand ' was a hyperbole we do not know . 
This like the santoor , is also a wooden box on which are mounted strings . 
In dimensions it is much smaller than its sister and has no bridges . 
They are plucked with fingers wearing metallic wire plectra . 
This near revolution is one of the greatest mutations in our music history and is closely dependent on the evolution of instruments . 
The subject , though extremely fascinating , is outside the scope of this book . 
To produce a raga a glass ball is pressed and moved over them , like the kamrika in the eka tantri . 
Both from its construction and manner of handling it is clear that this zither is a descendent of the eka tantri . 
These and other types of fretted zithers could be refinements of more primitive ones like the memerajan of the Savaras . 
instrument is very much smaller and has only seven flat frets . 
While the fingers of one hand pluck the strings the other stops them over the frets . 
Bilas Khan is considered to be the one who popularized the rabab and the other two the Rudra veena . 
No Indian judge , in other words , was empowered to try a European . 
It was contrary to the ideas of justice no European could expect justice at the hands of a ' native ' magistrate . 
Badruddin had already been in correspondence with officials of the government about this . 
To the shy struggling junior , he was the acme of helpfulness . 
To the arrogant and slipshod , he was crushing in reproof . '' 
Mr Jayakar tells the story of a senior English barrister who mispronounced Indian names , confusing the words bai and bhai . 
'' Mr Smith , Badruddin said to the barrister from the Bench , '' you have been in this country for several years . 
During this time , you have acquired an ample fortune out of the quarrels of Indians ... 
You should know by this time that bhai denotes a male and bai a female . 
Badruddin in fact set great store on common sense , and had little use for mere legalities . 
This principle of impartiality held even when Lord Curzon himself paid an unplanned visit to Badruddin 's courtroom . 
It is difficult to discuss any of the more important cases here since they were complicated in a legal sense . 
This was such a frightful charge and circumstantial evidence against him was so strong that no judge was willing to grant him bail . 
Nevertheless , he had the fairness , and perhaps even more , the courage , to release Mr Tilak on bail . 
But perhaps this story should be told a little more fully . 
Tilak 's article , which could be interpreted as an incitement to political murder , was thought to be responsible for this . 
Tilak was arrested and charged with sedition . 
The whole point of asking for the deposit is to make sure that the accused does not run away before his trial . 
Tilak 's solicitor made three applications for bail before various judges , Indian as well as English . 
The charge against Tilak was so serious that the judges were nervous of being thought disloyal to the government if they granted him bail . 
Seeing his chance when Badruddin Tyabji was in the court , he made a fourth attempt to get bail for his client . 
What you say is , that the accused should be forthcoming at the trial you wish really only to secure his presence ? '' 
At that time the entire city of Bombay was administered by one Commissioner . 
He was not answerable to any committee , but only to a Controller of Accounts . 
This meant that the city of Bombay was managed according to the whims and fancies of a single person . 
The first Commissioner was a man called Arthur Crawford , after whom the great Bombay market was called . 
Even the large social gatherings at his home were unusual for the time , in that they included members of every community . 
But we must return to the affairs of Bombay city . 
What the Governor had suggested was an important advisory body . 
What Badruddin wantedand finally got , was an elected body with responsibility and authority . 
This was particularly true about major questions , when he , Phirozeshah Mehta and Telang acted and spoke together through the Bombay Presidency Association . 
Their activities exploited every opportunity meetings , memorials , petitions , addresses and ' protests for the public good ' . 
When a man is sharp and quick about the present , he is called clever . 
But when his mental sweep includes everything there is , and also extends into a distant future , then he can be called wise . 
Badruddin 's leadership was always wise , and people learned to trust his judgement . 
We have already discussed the Ilbert Bill at great length . 
So that , in effect , what this rule meant was that India would permanently be administered only by Englishmen . 
The British were left in no doubt that Indians admired Lord Ripon and his policies . 
This is something that other Muslims of that time , and perhaps even down to the present day , have not accepted . 
The women of his family were always treated with much respect and consideration . 
His daughters were taught Gujarati , Urdu , Arabic and Persian , but not English . 
His sons were made to study Gujarati , Urdu , and Arabic , before being launched into English . 
They continued to proclaim him just what he happened to be , an Indian Muslim from Cambay . 
This explains why so many people have refrained from joining the Congress . 
Religious poison has always been more dangerous in India than gunpowder . 
A rich , flourishing community does not need our services ; a poor and apparently downtrodden community arouses our conscience and our concern . 
The Muslims at that time certainly needed help more urgently than any other group in India . 
The chief result of this was to make them cling even more obstinately to their old ways . 
They all thought , felt and lived in more or less the same way . 
But in Bombay the story was very different . 
The Anjuman organised a public meeting at Jami Masjid in Bombay in support of Turkey and invited every Muslim to attend . 
It followed up its success by other useful acts . 
It managed to get leave for Muslims who were attending court , to go to the mosque for Friday prayers . 
Certainly , Badruddin had no reason to be dissatisfied with the role he played in helping the Muslim community of India . 
The cure had to come from the Muslims themselves . 
Many of their old customs and traditions were acting as strait jackets , preventing every kind of growth . 
' Do not flaunt your beauty and your ornaments before others ' , the Quran said . 
They both trusted the educated Englishman 's sense of justice and fair play . 
On one occasion Tyab Ali put this confidence to a severe test . 
During the upheavals of the mutiny , a member of his community was accused of helping a mutineer and jailed in Baroda . 
He was quite clear that emotionally they must belong to their religion and their country , while intellectually they must belong to the world . 
The older sons joined their father 's business firm , which had a branch in Le Havre in France . 
Another son , Camruddin , stayed in England for over seven years , and was the first Indian to become a solicitor . 
His influence was limited to the Bombay Presidency , and to what he could show by personal example . 
As far as the political role of Muslims was concerned , Badruddin 's views were diametrically opposed to those of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan . 
Sir Syed , on the other hand , encouraged Muslims to consider themselves as a group apart . 
It was his policy never to get into an open quarrel . 
Discussion of educational aims is a tame and unexciting subject compared to the kind of hysteria which can be aroused by politics . 
There were eight hundred delegates . 
No doubt there have been many reasons for this , to which it is unnecessary to refer . 
But there is one in regard to which I must say a few words . 
They were not to be interested in , or to hear or learn about anything which did not directly concern their domestic duties . 
Most children in their formative years were in the sole charge of their mothers . 
With ' a sick mind in sick body , '' could these mothers give them the right sort of training and education ? 
It is no wonder that the majority of the Muslims were ignorant and superstitious . 
Having rocked the ship of orthodoxy , Badruddin quickly followed up his advantage by proposing a resolution for the establishment of schools for girls . 
The wail of purdah went up again . 
How could girls be sent to schools ; it would mean walking through public places , and contact with men . 
Badruddin attacked them in a forthright manner . 
If anything , he would be looked up to as courageous and resourceful . 
His household was Godfearing and deeply religious ; but he incorporated several Western customs which seemed good to him . 
For instance , boys and girls were encouraged to play games together , go for walks , picnics , and rides together . 
The furnishing and appearance of the house was given much importance as was the layout and maintenance of the large gardens . 
Spreading outwards from his family , he had an impact on the life and attitudes of all the Muslims of Bombay Presidency . 
It is true that Sir Syed Ahmed Khan 's hostility prevented Badruddin 's direct influence from being felt by the Muslims of north India . 
About two years after this important conference , Badruddin died . 
At the moment of his death , he had already accepted the permanent Chief Justiceship of Bombay . 
Obviously if he had lived he could not have played any part in politics , and only a limited part in social reform . 
How , in the final analysis , shall we sum up Badruddin Tyabji 's life and the influence he had on those around him ? 
He was an Indian first , then a Muslim , and finally a citizen of the world . 
Nehru was speaking as the Prime Minister of a free India . 
The struggle was over . 
India was independent . 
Outside his palace gates , though , he was a nobody . 
Many of them mixed easily with them , made friends with Indians and sometimes even took to Indian customs and ways . 
Consequently , the new phase of British rule resulted in a steep rise in the burden of taxation on the Indian peasant . 
Moreover , the Free Trade imposed on India was onesided . 
For example , in 1824 , Indian textiles paid duties ranging from 30 to 70 per cent . 
In some cases duties in Britain were as high as 400 per cent . 
Import duties on such products were removed only after their export to Britain ceased altogether . 
Gradually other countries of Western Europe and North America underwent industrialisation and the manufacturing and financial supremacy of Britain came to an end . 
Modern steel industry is a product of this period . 
The Indian soldiers revolted against their British officers ; in some cases killing them and their families . 
The fire , once begun , spread all over north India . 
The number of people killed as a sequel to the mutiny was beyond counting , for the British reprisals were savage . 
The Indians , they felt , must be given a lesson for revolting against their foreign masters . 
The country was saturated by the smell of fear and death . 
Soon afterwards , Queen Victoria was proclaimed Empress of India and India formally became a British colony . 
On the other hand , if this capital was invested abroad to produce mineral and agricultural raw materials , several objectives could be obtained . 
Once again the developed capitalist countries began a simultaneous search for areas where they could invest their surplus capital . 
Imperialism and expansion also served at this stage an important ideological and political purpose in the imperialist countries . 
The French had their own faith in a ' Civilising Mission ' . 
They were compelled to pay many illegal dues and cesses and were often required to perform forced labor or begar . 
This led to landlordism becoming the dominant feature of land relationships all over the country . 
Intermediate rent receivers also grew . 
In short , he persuaded his father to allow him to go to England at once . 
He was to join the Highway New Park College and sit for the London matriculation examination before reading law . 
Unfortunately , his equipment also included weak eyesight and poor health , a handicap which sometimes stopped him from working for long periods . 
You will see that very little has been said about Badruddin 's childhood . 
He went to the madarsa where , with great diligence he learned Urdu and Arabic . 
The British policy only helped to transfer resources from peasants and craftsmen to merchants , moneylenders and foreign capitalists . 
A significant feature of India 's foreign trade during this period was the constant excess of exports over imports . 
We should not , however , imagine that it was to India 's advantage . 
These exports did not represent the future claims of India on foreign countries , but the drain of India 's wealth and resources . 
One of the most important consequences of British rule was the progressive decline and destruction of urban and rural handicraft industries . 
The collapse of indigenous handicrafts followed . 
The ruin of the indigenous industries and the absence of other avenues of employment forced millions of craftsmen to crowd into agriculture . 
Development of Modern Industries British rule created conditions for the rise of a modern capitalist industry . 
In India a longstanding union had existed between rural industries and agriculture . 
Millions of craftsmen had been thrown out of employment . 
The new revenue system had deprived millions of cultivators of their land . 
A few engineering and railway workshops and iron and brass foundries also came into existence . 
From these facts we must not imagine that the foundation for an industrial revolution were being laid . 
Second , though the industrial progress during this phase was steady and continuous , it was extremely slow . 
Even by 1913 the total number of workers covered by the Factory Act was less than one million . 
There was no competition from foreign imports and the Government was also compelled to place large orders with Indian industrialists , merchants and contractors . 
Secondly , the structure of industry was such as to make its further development dependent on Britain . 
Through trade and travel she had for centuries established channels of communication not only with the countries of Asia but also with Europe . 
But it might have been a slow process spread over a long period of time . 
The Christian missionaries also contributed towards the reform of Indian society at this stage . 
The social policy followed by the British , however , did not remain passive . 
The new intellectual and political stirrings among the people also led to movements for social change . 
Women and tribal people too rose in defense of their rights . 
In time the peasants became aware of the role of imperialism and saw that it was in the main responsible for their plight . 
The artisans and craftsmen had also suffered much at the hands of imperialism . 
Till 1911 there were no regulatory provisions concerning their hours of work . 
There did not exist any kind of social insurance against sickness , old age , unemployment , accident or sudden death . 
There were no provident fund schemes . 
And a maternity benefit scheme , though a highly unsatisfactory one , came into operation in the 1930s . 
They now set out to build up a nationalist political movement against imperialism . 
The zamindars , landlords and princes were as a class loyal to foreign rule since their interests coincided with those of the rulers . 
They remained by and large loyal instruments of British rule to the end . 
But even from these two social strata many individuals joined the national movement moved by the prevailing spirit of patriotism . 
The aggressive proselytising propaganda of the Christian missionaries also aroused their anger . 
This movement was a national movement because it embraced within its fold all the different classes and groups of Indian society . 
There also existed mutual clashes of interests among them . 
But they sank their mutual differences and united against the common enemy . 
The soldiers thus transformed their mutiny into a revolutionary war . 
The common people often fought with spears and axes , bows and arrows , lathis and scythes , and crude muskets . 
All the rebels recognised Bahadur Shah , a Muslim , as their Emperor . 
The Hindu and Muslim rebels and sepoys respected each other 's sentiments . 
Nana Sahib was defeated at Kanpur . 
Thus the language of childhood is one 's mother tongue it is the language of the home , of domestic and personal life . 
The child learns it quickly and easily he can express himself , and generally function in it efficiently . 
The second language , formally acquired , is for the outside world , the language in which to work and think . 
This invaluable tool of the English language fell into Badruddin 's hands when he went to school in England . 
Badruddin had a quick , almost uncanny ear for languages . 
He arrived in England , remember , with very little knowledge of English . 
Gandhiji expressed the wish that civil disobedience should not be offered en masse but individually , through specific actions . 
It is in the context of these general trends that new alignments developed in the liberation struggle . 
There must , however , be tangible evidence to show that the Allies meant what they professed . 
But these feelings of the leaders and the people of India were neither heeded nor even taken into consideration . 
But it was scarcely likely to appeal to Indian sentiments . 
There were popular governments in the Provinces . 
There were well organised , fully recognised political parties in the country . 
They make no distinction between Nazism and the double autocracy that rules India . 
But he wanted to see more . 
'' Let us go that way , '' he told Channa . 
An old man , with bent back came hobbling along , supported by a stick . 
'' Who is that ? '' 
When Shuddhodhana heard . 
But when he was returning to the palace he saw a sick man who was hardly able to walk . 
'' He is sick , '' answered Channa . 
'' Old age , sickness , death ? 
This gave Siddhartha some hope . 
He woke up in the dead of night while his wife Yashodhara was fast asleep , with one hand lying on Rahula . 
Then he set forth in search of truth . 
There he joined a famous school run by a great scholar Udraka . 
Siddhartha went to a nearby river , Niranjana , and bathed . 
He was so weak , however , that he was almost carried away by the current . 
With great difficulty he came ashore . 
The first step was for man to discipline himself . 
The Buddha considered compassion as the highest virtue . 
He admired the decorum and dignity of their women , and their influence on social and domestic life . 
They could discuss public issues and politics intelligently , and often exerted an influence on the thinking and actions of important public men . 
Their indirect influence on politics was by no means negligible . 
Apart from this , the presence of women at private and public gatherings gave grace and charm to these occasions . 
In India , especially among Muslims , men and women lived in separate worlds . 
It was not imagined that a woman could have any conceivable interest in what happened beyond the walls of her home . 
She cut off her hair and dressed in yellow robes . 
The boy had no knowledge of his father and had been under the impression that he had no father other than Shuddhodhana . 
Once , Prasenajit was making preparations for a grand animal sacrifice . 
The dacoit was impressed by the courage of this man of ahimsa and was converted . 
Vishakha invited the Buddha to the house . 
So she arranged things in such a way that Migara heard the Buddha when he spoke to the members of the family . 
As expected , Migara was so moved by the words of the compassionate Buddha that he was converted . 
Vishakha never missed a sermon given by the Master in Shravasti . 
The venerable monk Ananda , a disciple of the Buddha found the headpiece after everybody had left . 
It became the favorite abode of the Buddha Ananthapindika was a rich merchant of Shravasti . 
Ananthapindika took Sariputra , a prominent disciple of the Buddha , to help him select a good site for the monastery . 
At times to make his point clear he spoke in parables . 
One such parable was the story of a king of Varanasi . 
The king of Varanasi was a powerful monarch . 
Once seeing the weakness of the smaller neighbouring kingdom of Kosala , he attacked it . 
The king and queen fled and took refuge with a potter in Varariasi where their son , Dighavu , was born . 
The king was worn out and fell asleep with his head on Dighavu 's lap . 
Eight years before the death of the Buddha he started a rival organization with a few personal friends and dependants . 
He even succeeded in securing the support of five hundred monks of the Sangha at Rajagriha . 
Bimbisara was a loyal follower of the Buddha . 
As long as he lived Devadatta knew that he would not be able to get the upper hand in Magadha . 
So he told Ajatashatru , '' Your father is not very old . 
Do you think you have any hope of becoming king ? '' 
The stone rolled down with tremendous force , but on its way it hit a hard rock and broke into many pieces . 
Sariputra and Moggallana were both important members of the Sangha and were required for various administrative jobs . 
If he accepted their services the Sangha might suffer . 
'' The Master is tired and is resting , '' Ananda said . 
The Buddha 's condition deteriorated . 
Therefore strive to be good . '' 
After his death the Buddha 's teachings began to spread outside India , mainly because of the zeal of emperor . 
As they work the men and the women sing , keeping the rhythm with the dhimmas . 
Hindus use it in their worship as well , both as an auspicious sound and as acontainer of holy water or milk . 
He was called to the Bar in England in April 1867 , and soon afterwards he returned to India to start working . 
But before that he gave himself the treat of walking and climbing in the most beautiful parts of England and Switzerland . 
But no one wants to know the views of an unknown painter about art , or of an ordinary school teacher about education . 
There was no longer the informal social intercourse which had characterised earlier relations . 
Young Englishmen were encouraged , indeed instructed , to be rude and overbearing to the ' natives ' . 
Wherever contact was unavoidable , the Indians were exposed to insults and snubs . 
For instance , the English debarred all Indians from their clubs and social entertainments . 
They could , and often did , object to Indians booking seats in the same railway carriage as themselves . 
The first is , of course , the influx of certain instruments . 
A major new dimension introduced from the West is orchestration . 
While all these are of great importance to harmonic music and of great beauty , they are alien to the Indian musical genius . 
As such this can be good Indian music , but definitely not good raga music . 
This brief survey of the cultural history of our instruments brings into focus the dynamic nature of all social processes . 
Clients first approach a solicitor when they need a lawyer , who puts them in touch with a suitable barrister . 
In this way Camruddin could always give work to his barrister brother and for Badruddin this was a great help in establishing his practice . 
Badruddin discovered that all the gloomy warnings he had received from his friends about practising on the ' Original side ' were correct . 
He could not join their clubs or social institutions , and was , therefore , socially cut off from his colleagues . 
Indians were excluded from their social life ; in fact , from all close and informal contact . 
The chimta seen in various parts of north India is a jingle johnny with small platelets . 
It is an iron fork , a meter long , on the arms of which are fixed loosely sets of small discs of brass . 
But the Sangeeta Parijata of the 17th Century and also Hindi poets of about a century earlier mention this instrument directly . 
The earthen pot is an instrument which is popular both in folk as well as classical music . 
The folk varieties are made of clay or metal and go under names such as matki , gagri and noot . 
Bharata in his Natya sastra tells a tale of how these pushkaras came into being . 
The sage listened , to the sound enthralled and came back to his hut with the music still ringing in his ears . 
He then had the various pushkaras such as the panava and the dardura made with the assistance of the heavenly craftsman , Visvakarma . 
Further , due to the longer duration of their sounds , they are more musical than idiophones . 
Nevertheless , the duration is not long enough nor is the pitch definite or precise enough for avanaddha vadya to have become melodic instruments . 
Another direction of evolution in this class of instruments is the potter 's craft . 
Quite a few tribes have special ceremonies related to them . 
Vedic rituals also gave a prominent place to the drum , particularly the dundubhi . 
This is an instrument seen invariably in kathakali , koodiyattam and related forms of dance . 
While it is thus bifacial , in actual practice only one surface is beaten . 
In old Tamil literature also one comes across the murasu quite often . 
These were not only martial in use , but were also employed in merrymaking and festivals . 
And Jain literature also has extensive references to certain bulging drums . 
We have once again to fall back on the Natya sastra for the earliest musical text describing the mridanga and allied drums . 
This is a very small drum , sometimes measuring as little as a few centimeters in length . 
While the nga chung and the mchod nga used by wandering monks are common , there is also the fantastic thod nga . 
This method of loading is an age old practice in our country . 
Sometimes a mixture of what flour and barley flour is used . 
And we have all played with bottles , blowing across their mouths . 
Badruddin 's home was that splendid mansion at Breach Candy which is now Sophia College , and his grounds sprawled over seventeen acres . 
He took an extraordinary interest and pride in his home , his garden , his horses , and his carriages . 
He worked hard and unremittingly his quickness of mind enabled him to achieve more during his long working hours than others . 
His favorite drink was cold water , his favorite relaxation was going for walks and picnics . 
He never went to the races , never gambled , drank , played cards for stakes , never went to ' nautch ' parties . 
A further variation of this is the nagphani of Gujarat . 
This does not seem to occur in India except in the Himalayan regions , specially connected with Buddhist tantra . 
The bone trumpet there is called the khang ling and is made out of a femur . 
Apart from human femur the thigh bone of a tiger is also used and is called the stag ling . 
They have been found in neolithic excavations outside India and in prehistoric cave painting in our country . 
It was made of gold , silver and copper of about half a meter in length . 
Today , naturally , a golden kahala is unthinkable , unless it is a curio kept in a temple or the old princely paraphernalia . 
One interesting example is the thunchen of the northern hills of Laddakh , Tibet and Bhutan . 
This , as with all instruments here , is ceremonial and is played in ritual dances and music . 
It is a huge trumpet nearly three meters in length , made of copper and decorated with silver . 
Vedic references to the bakura which was a conch is another pointer to the antiquity of the shell trumpet . 
For instance when Bharata goes to Nandigrama to meet rama , the sankh and the dundubhi accompanied the singers . 
Further , there is one very essential difference between the beating arid the free reeds . 
The khung carries half a dozen sound tubes inserted into the gourd and these are arranged in groups , three in each set . 
The tubes at their outer ends are capped with small fruit shells or bamboo cups to mute the sound . 
Simple but extremely sweet tunes are thus played . 
More sophisticated than these are the sheng of China , the sho of Japan and the shaehghwang of Korea . 
The result is a weird tonal and rhythmic effect which can hold you for hours . 
These instruments are used by snake charmers and balled singers . 
A hempen rope is tied across these curved protrusions , and the instrument is ready . 
Whatever be the regional variety the bridge of the instrument is of a particular interest . 
But the most important element is the small cotton , wool or silk thread inserted between the bridge and the strings . 
For our purpose it will be enough , to take note of two of the very major genuses of tata vadya . 
The first may be called the polychords and the other monochords , which were briefly discussed at the beginning of this chapter . 
On the other hand , instruments like the eka tantri , the sarode , the sitar , etc . 
Projecting out of this was the curved or straight wooden holder , the danda , onto which were tied the strings as described . 
A possible reconstruction of the ancient harp is given here . 
One of the most simple instruments of this class is the tuila of Orissa . 
Even there it is fast disappearing and there are very few indeed who can play it . 
The instrument is held diagonally across the body of the player with this dry fruit shell against the chest of the player . 
Over these passed a string of steel or brass and this was tensed by a peg on one side . 
The Vina resembles the Yantra , but has three strings . 
The Kinnar resembles the Vina , but with a longer fingerboard and had three gourds and two wires . 
Like the kinnari , the fingerboard is of a wide and smooth bamboo . 
One end of this holds a flat bridge typical in our instruments and beneath the dandi are two very large pumpkins . 
Badruddin decided to go and have a discussion with Lord Ripon in Calcutta . 
'' I took the responsibility upon myself and I telegraphed to stop all further agitation . '' 
The situation that no Indian judge was ever allowed to try or sentence a European was now a thing of the past . 
Real equality was to come in time . 
The agitation about the Ilbert Bill and its passage into law was notable for several reasons . 
The ' agitation ' was no street demonstration . 
Each commanded great respect in his own community and could impose his views upon it . 
Within a few years of starting his law practice , Badruddin found that he had more work than he could handle . 
This often meant a great deal of travel , especially to the princely states , where travel was by no means easy . 
At the same time he had become deeply and strenuously involved in public and political work , so that he was under great strain . 
His health and his eyesight broke down twice , and he was advised to stop work and go away for long rests . 
At this time , about 1895 , the government asked Badruddin to become a judge . 
At the same time there were some disadvantages about which he had to ponder carefully . 
Perhaps in other circumstances these considerations might have outweighed the advantage of accepting the judgeship . 
But his eyesight was now so bad that it was uncertain whether he could carry on his legal work . 
As a judge , his eyes would be saved of much strain , and this consideration probably made him take the decision to accept . 
He had recently filled in his term as president of the Indian National Congress . 
And there was little doubt that , for the time and the circumstances , he was an ideal leader . 
That the same uncertainties were present in Badruddin 's mind is proved by a piece of paper found among his things after his death . 
Listed in one column are all the activities which would become closed to him , mainly politics . 
Another column lists the advantages the main one being that he would preserve his eyesight . 
Few people realised that someone who did not know a man 's cultural background was not always capable of being truly just to him . 
His was an unusual gift , the gift of brilliant common sense . 
Well , having made his money , how did Tyab Ali proceed to spend it ? 
Obviously , he did not despise a high style of living , or he could not have earned the epithet of ' prince ' . 
But much of his money was spent or perhaps invested in a better word in buying education for his six sons . 
He had picked up his own education not merely from books , but also , and especially , from the world around him . 
The reason his judgement caused a tremendous sensation was because , although it was so obviously right , it was also so unexpected . 
They were discussed in the Houses of Parliament in London by people who had no knowledge of , and little interest in , India . 
Not to spend money on the poorer quarters was unfair , and this could only be remedied if each locality had an elected representative . 
It has been said that democracy is a very unsatisfactory system of government , but the other systems are even worse . 
But whether it is selective or universal suffrage , democracy still remains ' the least unsatisfactory of all the many forms of government ' . 
There was a clear distinction in his mind between true religious convictions and the irrelevant accretions which had collected around them . 
Islam is , after all , a very simple , straightforward religion . 
Anyone can become a Muslim by announcing that there is only one God , and that Mohammed is his prophet . 
He made it his business to meet Badruddin soon after coming to India . 
Soon afterwards , he was given a knighthood by the British government . 
A series of unfortunate coincidences also helped this ' divide and rule ' policy . 
Accordingly W . 
Later on , in several political speeches , Badruddin took the trouble to refute this , and to explain the reasons for his absence . 
And yet , no man should be blamed for putting friendship above other considerations . 
The next year Badruddin was again asked to preside at the session of the Indian National Congress . 
Gentlemen , I for one , am proud to be called not only educated but a ' native of this country ' . '' 
Perhaps it is not quite right to say that Tyab Ali 's domestic habits did not change with his changing mental vision . 
In one important aspect he changed the habits of his home . 
During his childhood , his mother tongue had been , naturally , Gujarati . 
You can imagine how limited and undeveloped their minds were . 
No wonder so few Muslim families were really educated in the modern sense . 
In his father 's household , his sisters were all well educated , according to the standards of their time . 
Two of them , as I have already said , were even sent for schooling to England . 
His daughters were all given music lessons , and were set to entertaining their father by singing ghazals for him in the evenings . 
I do not think that Badruddin would have been a great supporter of women 's lib as it has emerged in the last decade . 
However advanced his views , he saw the role of women as makers of homes and raisers of families . 
He trusted their intuition and their understanding of human feelings . 
It is well known that Islam gave several important rights and safeguards to women . 
One is the right of inheritance a daughter is entitled to half the amount of the son 's share in the father 's property . 
While women were uneducated and helpless , this law was often neglected among many Muslim sects . 
The father 's property was shared out between the sons , the daughters were either given nothing , or a small amount . 
Badruddin was meticulous in insisting that all daughters must be given their rightful share in their father 's property . 
His correspondence with Sir Syed had convinced him that it was not possible to have a rational , reasoned argument with him . 
Accordingly , rather than attempt to continue a dialogue , Badruddin preferred to withdraw from the politics of north Indian Muslims . 
After the death of Sir Syed , the situation changed somewhat . 
It had been the main factor in preventing the Muslims of north India from joining the Congress as Badruddin wished them to do . 
This time , instead of refusing outright , Badruddin made certain conditions . 
On his side , Badruddin saw this as an opportunity to address and influence all the Muslims of India . 
He believed that the only way the Muslims could become more respected , more successful and more prosperous was through modern education . 
Badruddin believed that all girls , too , should be educated in the modern sense . 
Gentlemen , you are probably aware of my peculiar position in reference to the Indian National Congress . 
Having said this , he explained once more to this wholly Muslim gathering the principles on which their political attitudes should be based . 
The second point , which was near Badruddin 's heart , was perhaps even more important . 
The purdah system , as it was practised during that time , was so constricting as to be unbelievable . 
Over the years , and in the various cultures which were influenced by Islam , these recommendations were interpreted in various concrete ways . 
The position , then , was that personally Badruddin had already made adjustments in his own household . 
The reactions to Badruddin 's speech can be imagined . 
So far , no Muslim had dared to openly challenge the established practices of the community . 
The mullahs and maulvis had always had the last word in deciding the correct forms of all religious practices . 
This struggle was the result of a clash of interests between those of the Indian people and those of the British rulers . 
It was also not easy to prevent competition from the Indian merchants since they were protected by the powerful Mughal empire . 
Neither the British Government nor the East India Company possessed such large financial resources . 
The wealth drained out of India played an important part in financing Britain 's capitalist development . 
It has been estimated that it constituted nearly two per cent of Britain 's national income at the time . 
At the same time the Company used its political power to acquire monopolistic control over Indian trade and production . 
For all this it was necessary that India must export some products to Britain and other countries . 
The British Indian Government set out after 1813 to transform Indian administration , economy and society to achieve exactly these ends . 
Above all , Free Trade was introduced and India 's ports and markets were thrown wide open to British manufactures . 
It is not surprising that he does not seem to have had a childhood . 
Technically , the business of sailing for England in 1860 , when Badruddin first left India , was easier than it is now . 
Emotionally and psychologically , however , it was much more difficult than it is now . 
There was an almost unimaginable gulf between our living habits and theirs . 
English ways and customs , even the English language , was as yet strange and unknown to most Indians . 
'' What danger is going to befall my son ? '' 
'' I am not crying for the child , '' replied Asita , '' but for myself . 
This child will one day bring deliverance to the world . 
Seven days after the baby 's birth , Mahamaya died . 
'' He will conquer the world , '' said one learned pandit . 
'' Only if he stays at home , '' added another . 
All three palaces were surrounded with flower gardens and lotus pools . 
He never wore anything except silk and never went out in the heat , , cold or rain . 
Hundreds of servants attended to his every need . 
The force of the argument impressed the king . 
Shuddhodhana took every precaution not to expose his son to the sight of human suffering of any kind . 
'' But he shall receive no greeting from us , '' they all said . 
This is the Dhamma , the law of righteousness . 
The sermon at Sarnath was only the beginning . 
For the rest of his life the Buddha traveled the country taking his message of righteousness to the people . 
Sanskrit was at the time the language of scholars and the nobility . 
The Buddha 's teachings were very simple and could be easily understood . 
Buddhist monks spent their retreats in the Viharas . 
It was during this visit to Rajagriha that the Buddha converted Sanputra and Moggallana . 
They had been friends from childhood and had renounced the world in search of the truth . 
He asked , '' Who is your teacher , brother ? 
Whose Dhamma do you follow ? '' 
'' I follow the sage of the Sakyas , '' answered Assaji . 
Kaludayin went ahead to inform Shuddhodhana about the visit . 
You have found the path to save all mankind . '' 
However , it seems to have meant any instrument , including the voice , capable of producing melody . 
These questions of nomenclature may seem pedantic to the lay student of music , but become extremely important to the specialist historian . 
The longer side is open as a narrow slit through which , of course , the scooping out of the inside could be done . 
The idiophone is suspended from the neck of the player who uses sticks to beat the instrument . 
At this end , the sides of the tube are carved out to make a handle . 
the instrument is used in folk music and dance it is also a hunter 's tool . 
For instance , in parts of Mysore a smaller variety is employed by elephant hunters . 
But the hunters , stationed in a big circle round them , begin to close in and finally drive the prey into special pens . 
The main frame has an annular base which does not complete the circle . 
The player holds the moorchang with the palm of one hand and prongs are held firmly between the teeth . 
The tongue or lamella is now plucked with the fingers of the other hand . 
He would take his place in the village square with the entire population round him . 
The vituperation would be so strong and vulgar that the miscreant would have to counter him either with a confession or an aggressive attack . 
In either case he got caught . 
It was the custom , when a new judge was appointed , for barristers to pay a courtesy call at his house . 
'' So am I , '' said Badruddin politely and left immediately in spite of the flustered judge 's attempts to stop him . 
The paper represents you to have made a ' rigmarole and nonsensical speech ' in defense of your client . 
The variety of shapes and sizes also developed pari passu the potter 's craft , as will become evident from what follows . 
The simplest is naturally an earthen pot the mouthof which is bound with a leather covering . 
Each of these is a large clay pot with a membranestretched over a wide mouth . 
As for instruments like the oboe , the shehnai and the nagasvaram , they must have been very recent indeed . 
The man climbed up a high tree and threw the fruit down , and the woman put them into her net . 
Suddenly a big piece of fruit fell onto a dry bamboo tree and cracked it open with a sharp sound . 
The man at once built a fence round the bird , ran into the village and told his friends what had happened . 
In our country , horns are ancient but can still be found now in tribal and folk music . 
The Santals have the sakna which again is buffalo horn . 
There is a Telugu folk story , Katamaraju katha , which has an episode of Nallasiddhi going to battle . 
On the Sanskritic and related side many evidences are available . 
Mahabharata has the govishanika which was quite probably a cow 's horn . 
Music texts , of course , include the srnga as one of the sushira vadyas as can be seen from the Sangeeta makaranda onwards . 
The bowstring is a hemp or leather strap . 
The villadi vadyam is an accompaniment to certain kinds of ballads called the villu pattu . 
There is also a chorus which keeps him company in song and rhythm , giving time with clappers , cymbals and the udukkai . 
Badruddin had a naturally impatient temper , but in his work he trained himself to be patient and calm . 
In an assured manner , Badruddin replied , ' I hope so , Sir ! ' 
So you are a Christian ? ' 
The Indians had very few rights , and no voice at all in the running of their own country . 
The father of Badruddin Tyabji was a very remarkable man called Tyab Ali . 
One suspects that God helped him because he was unusually resourceful , hardworking , and more than normally honest . 
We have now got used to such wild acts , but in those days it was almost unimaginable . 
Gentlemen , I venture to think that the present state of the law is not only unjust , but it is insulting to us . 
This speech is worth reading several times and analyzing carefully . 
He founded the Indian National Congress , associating Badruddin with it from its inception . 
Albert Octavins Hume was a most extraordinary Englishman whose life deserves to be studied . 
Among his many interests was an interest in life , and naturalists in India look upon him as the father of Indian ornithology . 
Badruddin Tyabji was , from the beginning , a wholehearted supporter of the Indian National Congress . 
His own idealism matched the purpose and aims of the new body . 
This was a source of sharp and permanent disappointment to him but it was useless to blame himself . 
It suited the British government to keep Hindus and Muslims apart , and in Sir Syed they found a useful helper . 
When Lord Ripon retired , his place was taken by Lord Dufferin who was an entirely different kind of man . 
As far as the resolutions were concerned , Badruddin was convinced about the importance of their being passed unanimously . 
In one case where the delegates were divided in their opinions , and there was danger of some disorder , he asked for time . 
These two principles would also safeguard the Congress itself for it would make it impossible to take extreme or unreasonable positions . 
A large number of Muslims had come to the Madras Congress . 
In a religion which stresses the brotherhood of man , there were innumerable factions all opposed to each other . 
Badruddin felt that an important first step to correct this was to see that the different sects should get a chance to interact socially . 
In his own house he made it a point to invite people of all communities and sects together . 
One was the Islam Club at Chowpatty where Muslims of all sects congregated and got to know each other . 
The other institution was the Islam Gymkhana , whose playing fields and clubhouse occupy the beautiful site on Marine Drive . 
There is no doubt that this mingling and socialising changed the atmosphere in the fragmented world of Bombay Muslims . 
Badruddin was a great believer in physical fitness and he knew that the only way to physical fitness was through exercise and sport . 
Badruddin himself had to learn all these languages before his English education began . 
At the same time they resented their own lack of opportunities and consequent lack of material success . 
Badruddin set about forming a plan to help his community to break out of this cultural prison . 
This seemed , at that time , a wildly ambitious wish . 
All the barristers as well as all the judges even , in fact , all the solicitors except his brother Camruddin , were English . 
But , difficult as it seemed , there was really no formal or legal obstruction . 
The difficulties , or rather disabilities , under which Indians lived in those days were the difficulties of circumstances . 
There was no law to say that an Indian was forbidden to be a barrister . 
But what was this ' tryst with destiny ' Nehru was speaking about ? 
Ever since then each year this day is celebrated as Republic Day . 
The pledge that was taken on that day was redeemed on 15 August 1947 when India became free . 
But India 's fight for freedom did not begin in 1929 . 
Consequently , they supported British rule and even described it as ' providential ' . 
Freedom of the Press which had so attracted the Indian intelligentsia soon began to be tampered with . 
Even elementary civil rights , the freedoms of thought , speech and association were increasingly violated and restricted . 
In the cultural field the Indian intellectuals noted that the progressive impulse had withered rather quickly . 
Consequently , the modern Indian intellectuals began the hard task of examining and understanding afresh the basic character of British Rule . 
Their understanding took time to develop . 
The government also began to extend patronage to the traditional intelligentsia through pensions financial rewards and bestowal of titles and honors . 
The British in India had always kept their distance from Indians and felt themselves to be racially superior . 
He ' stood tall ' , and therefore seemed tall , although in fact he was of average height . 
It became one of the favorite retreats of the Master and many of his discourses were given there . 
King Prasenajit accompanied by his nobles came here several times to pay homage to the Teacher of Righteousness . 
On his kingly duties the Buddha said , '' Regard your people as men do an only son . 
Once the Teacher was staying there with his favorite disciple Ananda . 
As was his practice , Ananda got up early , and , taking his bowl , went into the city to beg for alms . 
There he saw an outcaste Chandala girl drawing water . 
'' Give me some water , sister , I wish to drink , '' requested Ananda . 
One consequence of this kind of segregation was that there was usually little mental companionship between husband and wife . 
He explained his problems to her , and discussed their solution . 
Surprising as this attitude was , Badruddin admired it and made it his own throughout his life . 
This was the chance Dighavu had been waiting for . 
He drew his sword out of its sheath and said , '' You killed my father and mother . 
But suddenly the words of his father came to his mind . 
Dighavu put his sword back and took the trembling king back to the palace . 
He repented , returned to Dighavu all that he had taken from his father and also gave him his own daughter in marriage . 
For the best results the strings must be stretched with precise moderation . 
As long as they are interested in the game , they delight in the castles and treasure them . '' 
Out of spite he once killed a white elephant which the young prince was specially fond of . 
The Buddha was the undisputed leader of the Sangha , and Devadatta grew envious of him . 
'' I shall lead the Sangha as long as I live , '' replied the Buddha . 
Furthermore they were themselves quite old . 
The Buddha spent his last retreat near Vaishali , the capital of the Licchavi republic . 
She invited the sage and his monks for dinner to her house . 
'' We have been rejected in preference to a mere dancing girl , '' the nobles complained . 
Great and small were equal in his eyes . 
'' The Master is tired and is resting , '' Ananda said . 
The Buddha 's condition deteriorated . 
Therefore strive to be good . '' 
The whole performance has a strange feeling of rhythm and melody . 
And , if you compare these sounds with the high intricacy of raga and tala , they may not sound musical . 
What is true of music in general is more evident with instruments . 
The problem , then , is not easy and many schemes have been tried both in our country and outside . 
Later writers also tried their hands at grouping instruments . 
Notice the inclusion of the voice also in the family of instruments , which reminds us of the gatra veena of Sanskrit texts . 
Here again there are many varieties though , they are all almost invariably made of bell metal which is a particular variety of bronze . 
The simplest ones are of course just plain metal discs beaten with sticks , held in the same hand or with the other hand . 
All those mentioned so far are just plain surfaces . 
Such thalis may merely be placed on the ground , with the rims touching it and struck with the hands . 
The plates being of varying thickness and diameters , they give out tones of the different pitches in a musical scale . 
One could even call it a thali tarang , analogous to kashta tuning , nal tarang and so on . 
Some of the English barristers openly resented Badruddin 's presence and it was not easy for him to get work . 
Taken in a broad sense , the realm of the law was boundless , and ceased only where human activity ceased . 
It is of course very questionable whether there was a physical sacrifice of human beings . 
The prevalence of human sacrifice during vedic times seems to be doutbtful . 
Some kind of worship of the drum has continued to much later times . 
To the Hindu mind the damaru has inextricably esoteric associations with the Cosmic Dancer , Siva . 
This band is tied round the forehead of the player who strikes the instrument on both sides of the membrane with small sticks . 
Forexample , in the chengu of Orissa the skin is just crudelynailed to the frame by means of wooden pins . 
Theinstrument is commonly suspended from the neck , heldvertically and beaten with the hands or small straightsticks . 
In Maharashtra andKarnataka it is also called the halige . 
drum was pataha , a word found in the Mahabharata and the Natya sastra . 
However , medieval writers on music used the word most probably to mean a barrel drum . 
Other names for this class of instruments are dayara , chang , karachakra and so on . 
The relief of a large medallion shows a procession of monkeys and an elephant . 
In all there are eight monkeys , five of them riding on an elephant , perched all over the animal 's back . 
'' What is called eloquence , '' Badruddin once wrote , '' is entirely out of place in the High Court . '' 
Although he had to work closely with Englishmen , Badruddin made no effort to look like them . 
Once , an English judge could not hear him properly in court , and asked him , a little sharply , to speak louder . 
Badruddin did not consider the request courteous enough , and he continued to mumble . 
Another instrument is the suddha maddalam which resembles the mridangam but is played with dances such as the kathakali . 
The body or shell of the instrument is of wood and about sixty centimeters in length . 
The left face , called the toppi , is simpler having two lamina . 
Tuning of the drum is done by striking the right pinnal with a wooden block and a stone . 
The pakhavaj , as pakhavaj , gets an early reference most probably in the Hindi literature of about five hundred years ago . 
The player beats on one side with a stick and on the other side with his fingers . 
It is usual to call the larger drums as dhole or dhak and the smaller ones as dholak . 
The sizes may vary from the huge dhaks of Bengal to the small dholaks of itinerant beggars and drums beaten by ladies in marriages . 
The shapes also differ from the almost cylindrical to the barrel . 
The manner of stretching the hide over the mouths and lacing also varies . 
This form has an ancient past and once was a major instrument in sophisticated music . 
Today , however , one hears them only in tribal and folk music not on the concert platform . 
The panava is as old as the sootra literature and the epics , the Ramayana and the Mahabharata . 
Tamil classics have the utukkai , itakkai , timilai and so on which can be seen in use even now . 
But in Punjab , Rajasthan , Maharashtra and some other areas there is another instrument , the algoza . 
The two flutes are placed together inside the mouth and blown into at the same time . 
But it is usual to use one of the instruments for the melody and the other to give the drone or base note . 
The reason seems to be the versatility of the cross flute . 
The flute now being described , the horizontal or cross flute , is closed at one end and open at the other . 
A few centimeters from the blocked end there is a hole called the embouchure or blow hole into which the flutist blows . 
The principle of construction is exactly the same as in pungi . 
In place of the small bottle gourd in the pungi is the long gourd , called doodiya bhopla in Maratni . 
This has a hole at the side instead of one at the tips , and the opening is also fitted with a mouthpiece . 
They also have holes outside which are visible for playing the music . 
The air chamber in this instrument is not dried fruit but a full goat skin bag , legs and all . 
The mashak when properly sealed and filled with air , becomes an efficient float with which to cross rivers . 
The reed organ then came to India with the Western invaders , traders and proselytizers and has taken the form of the Indian harmonium . 
The bellows have holes to let in air from the atmosphere and also leather valves to prevent it from going out . 
This latter is the squarish chest which forms the bulk of the instrument , and acts as a resonator as well . 
There are various theories about this but none entirely comprehensive nor completely accepted . 
In pleading for the defense , Badruddin took the view that the same facts were capable of a quite different interpretation . 
He opened his case by carefully repeating the evidence , point by point . 
Badruddin was able to convince the judges that the case against his client did not hold water . 
We all know , by experience , how difficult it is to defend a small lie even without any intensive questioning . 
Like the chitra , the vipanchi also finds a place in the epics . 
One very important fact we can not help noticing is that in India none of these veenas had any pegs . 
The leather winding was moved slightly up or down this holder to alter the tension and hence the pitch of the string . 
It was an instrument of the aristocracy , played in their mansions and seraglios . 
Tamil writers themselves have called it as a avanakkai veenai , meaning an instrument of the Yavanas who are usually taken to be Greeks . 
The strings are stretched on a wooden chest which acts both as a rest for them as well as a resonator . 
Etymology apart , the modern santoor does have a large number of strings and is struck with sticks . 
The eka tantri is mentioned by this name from about the eleventh Century A . 
The danda of the veena was approximately one hundred and forty centimeters in length and it had a gourd below the danda . 
There are a few aspects that draw our attention here . 
The fingerboard is a broad long one of about a metre and quarter in length with two large pumpkins screwed to its nether side . 
Definite descriptions of this instrument commence from the eleventh century onwards , and they give a fairly detailed account of this veena . 
This sudden turn and onslaught was so unexpected that the Salvationist fled in disorder . '' 
The kind of subtle discrimination which you need ' to arrive at the truth ' , in a courtroom was Badruddin 's peculiar gift . 
Tichborne and his hundreds of false witnesses were not Indians . 
For the next ten years Badruddin served his city on the Town Council , the forerunner of the Bombay Municipal Corporation . 
The foundations of good management were laid at this time . 
And , for the next fifty years , Bombay was an extraordinarily beautiful and pleasant place . 
Badruddin took the hint , and resigned from the municipality . 
So far the British had never made any effort to associate Indians in the business of governing their own country . 
Laws were framed in an arbitrary manner , with no explanation of their reason nor of the results they were meant to achieve . 
When Lord Ripon became Viceroy in 1880 , he was determined to do something to improve this unhealthy position . 
He was anxious that people should have the chance to know about , and discuss , all legislation before it became law . 
This , then , was the aim of the Legislative Council to which Badruddin was nominated as a member by the Governor of Bombay . 
But the Governor was fair enough to accept the criticism . 
Badruddin was a member of this committee , and he worked on it very hard . 
The other committee members were English , and Badruddin by no means always won his point . 
There were two changes which he succeeded in introducing which are particularly interesting for us . 
'' The more intelligent the electors , the more chances there will be of the experiment becoming a success . '' 
I believe ... the favor recently shown him by the Viceroy ... has completely turned his head ... '' 
This failure was the most bitter defeat of his life . 
This pledge he kept throughout his life . 
They insisted on handling all the finances of religious trusts , often laying themselves open to suspicions of inefficiency , even dishonesty . 
There were , however , two sides to being a good Muslim . 
Obviously one 's sense of responsibility increases in proportion to the poverty and helplessness of one 's own community . 
The founding of the Islam Gymkhana was the answer to this problem ; and I think it must have served its purpose very well . 
Even more important than physical health was mental health . 
In short they were now in a mood to send their sons to any school which the Anjuman set up . 
The government had been planning to reduce its subsidy on education . 
On the contrary , he said , education deserved far greater support and encouragement from the government than it had so far been getting . 
An annual grant was gladly given to the Anjuman school , although it was not big enough . 
But though Badruddin could reason and explain he was no demagogue , and to that extent he was no match for Sir Syed . 
Sir Syed managed to arouse passions , he could frighten them , cajole them , excite them . 
Eloquent speaker though he was , Badruddin could not do this . 
And naturally Badruddin 's was a losing battle . 
But this defeat only proved once again , if proof were still necessary , of the importance of modern education among the Muslims . 
But if indigestion lasts a long time and causes pain , or you feel some nausea , you should consult your doctor . 
Constipation is a common problem , specially during long illness . 
You may be able to avoid it by drinking more and having more roughage in your diet and by exercising . 
If you are in need of a purgative then your pharmacist is the person to ask . 
General Health Problems 
In this section , some diseases are listed which can affect you in old age . 
In these conditions , you may need medical aids . 
You should bear in mind that most people live healthily throughout their lives . 
Asthma can cause a the gargling sound and difficulties breathing . 
It can affect people who have not previously suffered from this disease . 
Your doctor has many treatments for this and he will help you . 
In both conditions your doctor can prescribe you some analgesics or other medicines , or he can refer you to another specialist or surgeon . 
If you smoke , then give up immediately . 
It is never too late to reap the benefits . 
The earlier you check this and diagnosis or examine it , the better chance you have . 
There are two normal stages . 
The veins which carry blood to the heart mussels stop their blood supply suddenly ; this phenomenon is called a heart attack 
It causes unconsciousness , dizziness , nausea , and weakness , along with a severe pain . 
If you feel breathlessness , sweating , dizziness along with pain in the chest you should seek medical aid immediately . 
If you experience breathlessness , a swelling in the ankle and your heartbeat becomes faster during night hours , then consult your doctor . 
Nowadays there are many treatments and surgical options for heart disease . 
There are many professionals who can help to improve mobility and speaking skills in people affected by a stroke or strokes . 
If your treatment is continued , it is beneficial to keep the medicines and instructions given by your doctor . 
Consult your doctor about medicines by which you can prevent a stroke . 
Mental health problem may occur in any age-group age group . 
The problems which are discussed here generally affect older people . 
It is normal to forget the things by spending times . 
Depression is a common experience for all age groups . 
We feel frustration and boredom from time to time . 
If in your opinion you are eligible for this , contact to your local government authorities or energy action grants agencies before work starts . 
There must also be a proper air supply where the equipment is placed . 
Protection and security in home . 
Peace of mind is important for good health . 
So it is better to save our house from accidents and avoid unwanted guests for security . 
Most accidents take place in the home . 
Be aware of those things which are slippery and on which you can fall down . 
Given the choice , most people prefer to live in their own home . 
Financial matters . 
There are many benefits available apart from services pension which are helpful with some specific particular problems . 
Help for the disabled and their carers . 
If you are unhappy with your doctor , you can change doctors and do not need to give a reason for leaving . 
Lists of doctors are available at local libraries or at the FHSA . 
Doctor can deny or refuse any person for their list . 
If there is a problem contact FHSA . 
This leaflet tells you what the Ombudsman can and can ` t do ; but it can ` t cover every stiuation . 
If you have a query , please ring the Ombudsman 's enquiry line or write to his Office . 
Before you complain 
Who can complain to the Ombudsman ? 
What can ` t the Ombudsman investigate ? 
private health care 
complaints about matters that you are taking , or intend to take , to court 
What won ` t the Ombudsman usually investigate ? 
There are certain other things that the Ombudsman may or may not investigate . 
He needs to consider whether his intervention would be helpful and whether it would be likely to achieve anything for the complainant . 
He has discretion whether to investigate a complain and excercises his judgement in the particular circumstances of each case . 
He will not usually investigate if you put your complaint to him more than 12 months after you first became aware of the problem . 
How do I complain to the Ombudsman ? 
If you think that the Ombudsman can help you , you need to put your complaint in writing . 
Depending on the outcome of those he may launch a formal investigation . 
When will I hear from you ? 
We will usually acknowledge receipt of your complaint within two working days . 
This will depend on the complexity of your complaint . 
How will you decide if you can help me ? 
To make that decision , we may need to see the medical records and other papers surrounding your care . 
All information will be kept strictly confidential . 
If you complaint is about clinical care , we will ask one of our clinical advisers to look at your case 
What happens if you do look further into my complaint ? 
For hip or knee replacements and cataract operations , a waiting time guarantee of 18 months has already been established . 
Such long waits for these operations are now a thing of the past . 
Your operation should not be canceled on the day you are due to go into hospital or after you have gone in . 
OUTPATIENT WAITING TIMES 
YOUR HOSPITAL 'S OWN STANDARDS 
waiting times for you to receive treatment in accident and emergency departments after your need for treatment has been assessed ; and 
waiting times for taking you home after you have been treated if your doctor says you have a a medical need for NHS transport . 
You can expect your hospital to display information on the Patient 's Charter including these local standards and whether they are meeting them . 
There are nurses , health visitors and midwives working in your community . 
Please return them to your pharmacist for safe disposal . 
The Government has published a special charter for pregnant women and new mothers . 
This explains your rights and the standards of service you can expect to receive during pregnancy , the baby 's birth and postnatal care . 
These rights and standards are part of the Government 's policy in '' Changing Childbirth '' . 
Or you can ring the National Health Information Service on 0800 665544 
Learning from you 
Citizen 's Charter Unit 
The signs The dangers What to do 
What is solvent sniffing ? 
In the average home there are over thirty sniffable products . 
Some youngsters who sniff have accidents while they are intoxicated and some further damage to their health . 
How many young people sniff ? 
But a few many become heavy and frequent solvent misusers . 
The number of youngsters sniffing varies from place to place and at different times . 
Some people say there is more sniffing in the summer , but perhaps it 's just more obvious in the long summer evenings . 
Sniffing will vary from school to school , from youth club to youth club and from one residential children 's home to another . 
It can be a quite craze in a neighborhood for while and then almost disappear . 
Most young people will never try sniffing . 
Young people have their own reasons for misusing solvents . 
Adults won ` t get very far in trying to help someone unless they find out what their reasons are . 
Solvents can be an alternative to alcohol . 
Some young people like the excitement of sniffing solvents , perhaps partly because the element of danger . 
If adults are shocked by sniffing , that can be an attraction . 
For some young people there is an attraction of playing with a new physical sensation . 
Adults can help by getting misusers to see that solvents won ` t solve their problems . 
Until they accept this they are not likely to stop . 
Sometimes , sniffing may be a reaction to problems in the family . 
Her father wanted her to go to Cambridge University and get a good degree but she wanted to become a photographer . 
Her sniffing was a challenge to her father 's expectations for her . 
It was also an escape from the pressure he was putting on her . 
Can you recognise a sniffer ? 
Education in schools , colleges and youth projects to try and prevent young people from sniffing may help to reduce casualties . 
Many schools have education about drugs and solvents built in to the curriculum . 
But the educational message must be the right one . 
Education is not just about giving people the facts . 
Horror stories don ` t seem to help and may even encourage young people to try sniffing . 
Help them to have new and exciting experiences without using chemicals ; 
Get them to think about hoe they might refuse to try drugs or solvents without losing their friends ; 
Teach them to care for and value their health ; 
Monitor current prescriptions to make sure that children are not using them for their first experiments with drugs . 
How can we help solvents misusers ? 
But if you discover that a child has tried solvents , what can you do ? 
But you need to do this in a constructive way which will help them to change their behavior . 
More important than talking , you will need to listen . 
Perhaps there are problems that you don ` t know about . 
You may find that sniffing isn ` t the main problem , and it 's more urgent to tackle other problems . 
If they have been sniffing for some time , arrange a health check . 
You may want to ensure that they don ` t carry on sniffing . 
But it may be difficult to stop a determined sniffer . 
Instead , arranging activities together will help the young person to know that you care and will give them other things to do . 
It will also help you to keep track of how they are using their free time . 
You might think about your own use of drugs like alcohol and tobacco . 
You may want to get advice from a local helping agency . 
There are some addresses in this booklet to put you in touch with the right people . 
Exertion after sniffing might cause heart failure . 
Parents sometimes need more help in getting young people to make the difficult change from childhood to adulthood . 
There are agencies and groups who can help with the problems young people and their parents have . 
These are listed at the back of this booklet . 
What happened to Sally ? 
Sally was 13 and doing OK at school . 
Each member of the group inhaled from the can , and some felt a strange effect , rather like being drunk . 
When it was Sally 's turn she took a large breath . 
She became frightened by the effects . 
She ran up the stairs to go to the toilet to be sick but collapsed on the landing . 
Sally arrived home late in the evening looking very pale and exhausted . 
Her mother is now worried about this and concerned that Sally will escalate her drinking . 
They also negotiate with her a ' coming home time ' if she is going to be out later than usual . 
Gradually he sniffed less and less , and his health improved . 
What else can you read ? 
leaflet on ' Adolescents and Drugs ' and ' Adolescents and Alcohol ' published by the organization , Exploring Paranthood at 50p each ; 
Where can you get help and advice ? 
After reading this booklet you may feel that you need more information or some extra help . 
They publish leaflets , booklets and videos and know about local agencies who can help . 
Exploring Parenthood is an organization which offers help and advice to parents . 
The National Children 's Bureau has an information project on solvent sniffing for professionals who work with young people . 
Their books , ' Soluble Problems ' and ' Sniffing Solutions ' , cover practical responses to solvent sniffing . 
A reading list is available . 
all types of fresh fruit 
savoury crackers oatcakes 
low sugar breakfast cereals , e . 
Limit sweets and puddings and give them to your child at meal times only . 
The more often your child eats sugary foods , the more likely they are to get tooth decay . 
Give fruit instead of sweets . 
Give milk and water . 
These are the best drinks for children . 
Dilute fresh fruit juice and take with meals . 
Sugar is the main cause of tooth decay . 
It is not just the amount of sugar that matters , but how often sugary things are taken . 
Sweetened juices , squashes and fizzy drinks are a major source of tooth decay . 
How do I know how much sugar is in food ? 
The labels on prepared foods and drinks you buy show their sugar content . 
The earlier that sugar appears in the list of ingredients on the label , the more sugar there is in the food . 
Rinse the brush under the tap , but do not rinse the mouth out with water . 
If you are helping your child , stand behind them with their head tilted slightly back . 
Encourage your child to open wide to clean the inside surfaces and chewing surfaces . 
It 's easier to reach the outside surfaces of the teeth at the back if the mouth is half shut . 
As your child gets older , encourage them to practise with your help . 
What is fluoride ? 
You may have heard of fluorosis and wonder what that means . 
The most common cause of this condition in Scotland is due to children ' eating ' fluoride toothpaste . 
Who needs fluoride ? 
How much fluoride in water is needed to protect teeth ? 
How much fluoride is in Scotland 's water supply ? 
Although fluoride is present naturally in Scotland 's water , nearly all levels are much less than the required 1ppm . 
Very rarely , a new born baby may start to bled , for no reason . 
This is bad for the baby 's health and might even cause the baby to die . 
Five minutes spent reading this leaflet will give you the background information you need to get the most out of that discussion . 
What is VKDB ? 
Bleeding happens unpredictably in some babies and it 's not possible to identify babies as high or low risk with absolute certainty . 
Which babies are at greater risk ? 
have liver disease that may show as prolonged jaundice or as other symptoms , such as pale stools or dark urine 
are ill for other reasons 
have bleeding or spontaneous bruising in early infancy . 
Our experts advise that the evidence suggests that it is not . 
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH RECOMMENDS that breast feeding is preferred over artificial or bottle milk where possible . 
One dose is given at birth , by the midwife or other healthcare professional . 
This method can be just as good as having an injection but only if doses are repeated . 
Two doses are advised in the first week for all babies . 
On this regime it is essential that you make sure the third dose is given . 
Breast feeding gives babies the best start in life . 
Breast milk provides the right nutrients , growth factors , hormones and immunity a young baby needs to grow and develop . 
Artificial or bottle milk is fine though it can not match the advantages of breast milk . 
Many babies who later suffer bleeding in the brain have had prior minor bleeds from the skin , nose or mouth . 
Thus minor bleeds or bruising any time in the first six months , must be looked at urgently . 
A better deal for tenants 
Your new right to Compensation for Improvements 
Your Right to Compensation for Improvements 
You can also apply if you get a new landlord . 
Who gets compensation ? 
Your new Right to Manage 
Your Right to Manage 
This is called the Right to Manage . 
Council estatesare usually managed by the local authority . 
collecting rents and service charges ; 
organising repairs and maintenance ; 
and making sure buildings are kept clean and tidy . 
This agency will work with you over a period of up to six months . 
It will tell you more about how you can get involved in the management of your homes . 
If you vote yes , you will get free training on how to manage services properly . 
This training may last for up to two years , depending on the number of services you want to take over . 
This will list the services that you want to manage . 
You can also talk to tenants ' organizations who already manage their homes for themselves . 
Contact your nearest rent assessment panel for details . 
As a tenant what am I responsible for ? 
Paying the rent as agreed and taking proper care of the property . 
Bills for gas electricity , telephone etc . 
The fire safety of furniture and furnishings provided under the tenancy . 
What can I do if my landord tries to evict me illegally or is harassing me ? 
Your landlord can not evict you without a possession order from the court . 
Where can I get more information ? 
You can also get advice from a solicitor , Law Centre , Citizens Advice Bureau or local authority Housing Advice Centre . 
GOING TO COURT 
The majority of cases that reach court are dealt with by magistrates ' courts . 
You should let the police know if there are any days when it would be difficult for you to attend court . 
If possible , these dates will then be avoided . 
But there may be times when the case has to go ahead even though this may not be convenient for individual witnesses . 
If you are called to give evidence and are unable to give it in English , arrangements will be made to provide an interpreter . 
If you are not needed as a witness , the police will try to tell you about hearing dates . 
There could be several such dates if , for example , cases are delayed or postponed . 
PROTECTING YOURSELF AGAINST CRIME 
Unfortunately , some people who have been the victim of crime are more vulnerable , in the short term , to further crime . 
The police can offer you free crime prevention advice , if you ask them . 
It gives details of simple precautions that you can take to protect yourself , your family and your property . 
Copies are available from your local police station . 
If there is a local Neighbourhood Watch Scheme , you may want to join it . 
the employer 's arrangments for getting competent people to help him her satisfy health and safety laws ; 
the planning of health and safety ; and 
the health and safety consequences of introducing new technology . 
making your workplace safe and without risks to health ; 
ensuring plant and machinery are safe and that safe systems of work are set and followed ; 
providing adequate welfare facilities ; 
giving you the information , instruction , training and supervision necessary for your health and safety . 
assess the risk to your health and safety ; 
not interfering with or misuing anything provided for your health , safety or welfare . 
You may also wish to discuss it with your safety representative , if there is one . 
Health and safety inspectors can give advice on how to comply with the law . 
Your employer can give you their names and addresses . 
You can get advice on general fire precautions etc from the Fire Brigade or your fire officer . 
Please use form WP1 when applying for first work permits and for changes of employment or use WP1X for extensions to existing work permits . 
Neither you nor the student needs to obtain permission for this . 
The employer must be considering recruiting the student as a trainee on completion of their course . 
Some people will need the work permit to get an exit visa to leave their country . 
Some will need a visa to enter this country . 
The visa includes details of the time limit and restrictions as appropriate . 
They are expected to obtain the visa from the British Embassy , High Commission or Consulate in their country of normal residence . 
The issue of a work permit does not guarantee entry to the UK 
At one point the police advised the family to contact the Procurator Fiscal themselves . 
Needless and avoidable distress was caused to the family . 
At the national level , ACPOS published a Racial Diversity Strategy in March 2000 . 
Only when that is achieved will minority communities gain confidence that they are being policed fairly . 
The Inspectorate 's reports , like those of other Inspectorates , should be made public . 
How to appeal against a decision 
We will ask you to let us know whether you intend to appeal within 28 days . 
If you need more advice on how to appeal , please take this up with our contact named on the letter . 
Our appeals procedure will give you an independent review of your application . 
However , this may take longer if we need to contact you for more information after you have sent in your appeal . 
How to make a complaint 
Applications to change employment 5 45 
Declarations 5 50 
Where can I get an application form ? 
When should I apply ? 
What if the passports are not available at the time the application is submitted ? 
Where do I send the application form ? 
See paragraph 3 of the General Information leaflet for information on where to get application forms . 
The person can not use the permit for a different job training or to work for a different employer . 
They must not be filling a position that would otherwise be filled by a ' resident worker ' . 
If the person is filling a vacancy you should apply for a business and commercial work permit on form WP1 . 
They will not normally be allowed to transfer to work permit employment in this country . 
See paragraph 28 of the General Information leaflet for contact details . 
Additional criteria for work experience 
Where can I get an application form ? 
Paragraph 3 of the General Information leaflet gives details . 
Please ensure that you use the appropriate form . 
For further information please see our website . 
The issue of a work permit does not guarantee the issue of a visa and or entry to the UK . 
You should allow time for this to happen . 
If the person is already in this country , how does this affect the application ? 
The Initial Consideration Unit at the Home Office will consider the person 's current immigration status before reaching a decision . 
How will we process applications where the passport has been sent in ? 
Where this is the case , customers will be notified immediately . 
The Initial Consideration Unit will then complete all further action required . 
What if the passports are not available at the time the application is submitted ? 
Where do I send the application form ? 
For people on a low income 
If you have to sign on at the Jobcentre , you can not get Income Support 
Aged 16 or over ? 
On a low income ? 
Funeral Payments can help with the costs of arranging a funeral . 
You can get this from your social security office . 
On a low income ? 
Paying rent ? 
On a low income ? 
Paying council tax ? 
Repayment of necessary travel costs to hospital and back for NHS treatment 
If YES to one , you can get help with health costs . 
If you want more information get leaflet HC11 Are you entitled to help with health costs ? 
Calls are confidential . 
Free milk for disabled children 
If you have a child aged between 5 and 16 who is unable to attend school because of a physical or mental disability 
WK1 Financial help if you work or are looking for work 
Why social exclusion is a priority 
Crime doubled between 1980 and 1995 . 
it was poor at reintegrating those who had become excluded . 
The Government 's approach 
a ' rights and responsibilities ' approach that makes Government help available , but requires a contribution from the individual and the community . 
But results are already starting to come through . 
the Rough Sleepers Unit is piloting new approaches to end the fast track to homelessness from prison and the Armed Forces ; 
Stakeholder Pensions will help moderate earners build up better pension entitlements from this April . 
since 1997 more than 270COMMA000 young unemployed people have moved into work through the New Deal for Young People ; 
The most improved area was Tower Hamlets , with an increase of 23 per cent ; 
At the same time , policy innovation has been accompanied by new structures and new ways of working within Government . 
sustaining the investment that has been made ; 
following up what has been put in place ; 
maintaining an open working relationship with those outside Government ; 
raising standards once current targets are met ; and 
extending the new approach to other areas that have not yet been radically reassessed or where new problems emerge in future . 
Not working , or working on average less than 16 hours a week ? 
You can not usually get JSA if you are aged under 18 , see page 9 . 
You can get this from your Jobcentre or social security office . 
If you want more information about these special circumstances , contact your Jobcentre . 
Before you go to your Jobcentre to claim JSA , you should register at your Careers Service office for training and work . 
If they think you may be able to get JSA , they will give you a form to take to the Jobcentre . 
If you are aged 16 or 17 and are unable to work you may be able to get Income Support . 
If you want more information about who can qualify for Income Support , contact your social security office . 
If you need help filling in the form , we can arrange this . 
To get JSA you must have a Jobseeker 's Agreement . 
You and the adviser will make this agreement at this interview , and you will both sign it . 
In some situations you may be able to get a reduced allowance under the hardship provision . 
You may be able to get a reduced amount of JSA under the hardship provision . 
You must be able to show that you or someone in your household would suffer hardship if you do not receive any JSA . 
Whether you get a Crisis Loan will depend on your particular circumstances . 
If you have already borrowed from the Social Fund and you still owe money , it may affect how much you can get . 
Before you get any money you will have to agree how you will pay the loan back . 
If you are on benefit , we will usually deduct some money each week . 
Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit 
Help towards rent and council tax 
Paid by local councils 
You do not have to get any other benefits 
On a low income ? 
Paying rent ? 
On a low income ? 
Paying council tax ? 
If you want more information get leaflets GL16 Help with you rent and GL17 Help with your council tax . 
Starting work schemes 
Care of a child who you get child maintenance for ? 
Stopped getting benefit because you have started work , increased the number of hours you already work or the amount you earn ? 
The amount you can get builds up while you are on benefit and getting maintenance . 
The new work or increase in earnings or hours must start within 14 days of your benefit stopping . 
Been a lone parent for those 26 weeks ? 
Started work or increased the number of hours you already work so that you now work 16 hours a week or more ? 
The rules are the same for both of these benefits 
You can carry on getting these benefits for an extra 4 weeks at the amount you have been getting 
If certain benefits stop because of work 
For information on Housing Benefit or Council Tax Benefit contact your local council . 
Sick or disabled 
If you are getting one of these benefits because you are sick or disabled 
If you start work but have to go back onto benefit 
Have been sick for at least 28 weeks ? 
Start work or training within 7 days of getting one of these benefits ? 
If YES to both , you may be able to protect your benefit for up to 52 weeks . 
If you start work or training , let us know straight away . 
You can not get protection if your benefit stopped because of a medical test . 
For more information , contact your social security office . 
If YES to all , ask your Jobcentre about Jobfinder 's Grant . 
Funeral Payments may have to be paid back from the estate of the person who has died . 
Community Care Grants and other Social Fund payments do not have to be paid back . 
Funeral Payments can help with the costs of arranging a funeral . 
Winter Fuel Payments can help eligible households that include someone aged 60 or over with their winter fuel bills . 
You can get more information about Winter Fuel Payments from leaflet WFP1 Important information about Winter Fuel Payments 2000 . 
To claim Jobseeker 's Allowance or if you want more information , contact your Jobcentre . 
Also contact your Jobcentre for more information about schemes to help you start work . 
For your nearest Jobcentre , look for Employment Service in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
To claim Income Support , apply for a Social Fund Crisis Loan , or for more information , contact your social security office . 
For your nearest social security office , look for the Benefits Agency display advert in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
For your nearest Inland Revenue enquiry center , look for Inland Revenue in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
Housing Benefit or Council Tax Benefit 
Before you fill in your form , check that you are applying for everything you may be entitled to . 
It is important that we can be sure of your identity when you make a claim . 
BC1 Babies and children 
SD1 Sick or disabled 
GL17 Help with your council tax 
GL18 Help from the Social Fund 
GL23 Social security benefit rates 
HC11 Are you entitled to help with health costs ? 
Remember that this leaflet is a general guide to benefits and schemes and is not a full and authoritative statement of the law . 
Nearby in North and Central Manchester , there is a team of a social worker , manager , specialist carers and management employees . 
Although based in different places the Health and Social department employees work together . 
Manchester M12 4AN 
The Education Department runs various courses for people with learning disabilities . 
The Department of Social Services directs the employment opportunities for the people with learning disabilities . 
What you can do about noise 
It is a fact of life that we all make noise . 
Whether we are talking to others , playing music , entertaining , driving in our cars or just going about our daily business . 
What is a noise to one person may be pleasurable to another . 
Excessive noise can reduce the quality of life and , in some extreme cases , even destroy it entirely . 
Unexpected sound , repetitive bass beats , screeches or whines can be just as annoying . 
Below we have illustrated some examples of typical sound levels . 
In the next section we tell you what to do about these and other noises which are a problem . 
section 1 bothered by noise 
Who do I complain to ? 
If you want to make a complaint about noise , you should contact your local authority , usually the environmental health department . 
If they visit or witness the noise and are satisfied that a statutory nuisance exists , they must take immediate action . 
Sometimes they will measure the noise as part of their investigation into a complaint . 
There is no set level at which noise becomes a statutory nuisance . 
Like you , the local authority may try to resolve the problem informally . 
This may require the noise to be stopped altogether or limited to certain times of the day . 
They can also gain access to or remove vehicles , machinery or equipment which are causing a statutory nuisance by creating too much noise . 
Codes of practice give advice about the minimisation of problems caused by potentially noisy activities . 
Courts must have regard to relevant codes approved by the Secretary of State when considering the defense of best practicable means . 
The London local authorities act 1991 
Your local authority can tell you if it has adopted these powers . 
Any complaint made to the Ombudsman must be brought within 12 months of the event omission complained of . 
Before the Ombudsman will investigate a complaint the council must have a chance to answer it . 
Complaining to a magistrates ' court 
The magistrates court will need to be persuaded that the noise problem amounts to a statutory nuisance . 
How do I proceed ? 
Try and resolve the problem informally before contacting the court , and by writing to the person responsible for the noise . 
Most runaways return home or are returned but receive little help in sorting out the problems they ran from . 
The problem and why it matters 
Two out of five jobseekers say lack of transport is a barrier to getting a job . 
One in four jobseekers say that the cost of transport is a problem getting to interviews . 
One in four young people have not applied for a particular job in the last 12 months because of transport problems . 
This may be due to poor network coverage , frequency , and reliability of public transport or a lack of accessible facilities . 
The average distance to work for people on low incomes is three miles compared with eight for the general population . 
Jobseekers are typically not prepared to travel more than thirty minutes to a job . 
Privatisation also created a less stable bus network subject to many small route changes and inhibited integrated ticketing policies . 
What can be done ? 
In Helsinborg , Sweden , and in Copenhagen , bus funding is linked to performance measures and a customer survey of 25COMMA000 passengers . 
Shanwar was their brave and powerful leader . 
In the 2nd century B . 
In the Malana village in Kulu , we have distinct proofs of the Kiratas having settled there . 
Of these 7COMMA69COMMA572 belong to the scheduled castes and 1COMMA41COMMA610 to the scheduled tribes . 
The climate here is cool , and healthy . 
The Spiti valley has a few villages at the altitude of 4COMMA270 metres the highest in the world . 
Lahual has mountains 4COMMA500 metres to 6COMMA500 metres in height . 
In 1620 , Jahangir annexed the fort of Kangra with the help of king Jagatsingh of Noorpur . 
King Vidhi Chand of Kangra defied king Akbar and lost , but was pardoned . 
King Dipchand displayed great valor during the reign of Aurangzeb . 
Their dress patterns , follow the local climate . 
The people of Lahaul wear long gowns and trousers but their gowns do not have mandarin sleeves like those of the Tibetans . 
The Gaddi dress is very attractive . 
All these tribes are very fond of silver ornaments . 
The use of peacock feathers as ornaments shows the Muslim influence . 
These economic changes are being followed by quick social changes . 
With this dirt he created the statue of a female and breathed life into it . 
shiva 's turn came last . 
The Primitive mind has created various myths about these two heavenly bodies . 
Moon in the fourth , eight and twelfth houses is considered inauspicious . 
Their old mother asked them to rub her back . 
The angry mother cursed him to burn in his own fires perpetually . 
He rubbed his mother 's back gently and lovingly . 
Looking at the frail form of the moon , all of them melted and requested their father to withdraw the curse . 
The story , with a few local variations , is common to all parts of Himachal . 
The Eclipse There are many tales about the eclipses of the sun and the moon . 
The gods were very upset by this . 
Lord Vishnu changed himself into the irresistible female from of Mohini , and began to dance in front of the demons . 
Mohini quietly stole the pot and said that she would distribute it . 
Their stampede shaped the ridges and valleys upon the mountain sides . 
It is also said that an increase in sins results in earthquakes as sins make the earth heavier . 
Lightening A couplet in the Rigveda says O Rudra ! 
The priests then collect lumps of butter from each house in the village and join the pebbles with that and reform the Lingam . 
The lightening is also said to be sister to krishna . 
As soon as it was done , the baby girl turned into a streak of lightening and flashed across the skies . 
People say that onc there were two sisters . 
The poor young boy went back crying to his mother , who consoled him and asked him to pray to Lord Vishnu for solace . 
Narad asked him to perform Tapas to meet his master , Lord Vishnu . 
At that time shiva was dancing his famous Tandava dance . 
The great upheavel changed the direction of the flow of the waters to the south . 
services that give you a break 
emotional support from other carers or people who understand 
help with household tasks 
help with caring tasks during the day night 
Other services that you might want to discuss with them are those that may help the person you look after . 
Your hospital should give you a specific time for your appointments and you should be seen within 30 minutes of that time . 
You can decide who that will be . 
For safety reasons , your baby is identified by two name labels during his or her stay in hospital . 
You must be shown the labels as soon as possible so that you can check the information on them is correct . 
You can keep your baby with you in hospital unless there are clinical reasons why you should not . 
These should be explained to you . 
You should also be able to ask for your baby to be put in the nursery if you want this . 
If You are Dissatisfied with Your NHS Services 
Your local Community Health Council can also provide independent help and advice . 
Bacterial meningitis is quite rare , but can be very serious . 
There are three main types of bacterial meningitis . 
Is it only children who get the disease ? 
Anyone of any age can get meningitis or septicemia . 
They are also given to immediate family members and anyone else who is in close contact with the person who has the disease . 
Antibiotics are not used for viral meningitis . 
Can you get meningitis by coming into contact with someone who has it ? 
The germs that cause bacterial meningitis are very common and live in the back of the nose and throat . 
People of any age can carry these germs for weeks or months without becoming ill . 
It is only rarely that they overcome the body 's defences and cause meningitis or septicemia . 
You can not get meningitis from water supplies , swimming pools , factories or buildings . 
What is septicemia ? 
The germ enters the body from the throat and travels through the blood . 
In some cases , the germs multiply in the bloodstream and cause blood poisoning . 
People with septicemia usually have a rash which can be anything from tiny red spots to large blotchy bruises . 
Their skin may be pale and clammy , even though they have a fever . 
Where do you get the rash ? 
It can develop very quickly , and in a matter of hours the spots can grow to red or purple bruises . 
It may be more difficult to see the rash if you have a dark skin . 
How soon should you call a doctor ? 
The meningococcal germ that cases meningitis or septicemia can be very serious . 
But you can prevent the consequences by acting quickly . 
If you think you or your child might have meningitis , contact your doctor immediately . 
Explain why you are concerned . 
Describe the symptoms carefully and ask for advice . 
If you suspect meningitis or septicemia , call your doctor immediately . 
Measles can be a serious illness that the vaccine prevents . 
There are often complications from measles and it can still kill . 
Mumps vaccine prevents mumps , which was the biggest cause of viral meningitis in children . 
Rubella vaccine prevents babies being badly damaged if their mother catches rubella when pregnant . 
MMR can prevent these diseases in a combined injection . 
MMR contains three separate vaccines in one injection . 
The vaccines have different side effects at different times . 
This is because the measles part of the vaccine is starting to work . 
Less than 1 in a million 
More information is in Factsheet 2 . 
But bowel disease is no more common in immunised people than in people who have not been immunised . 
Again , there have been many studies that can not find a link with the vaccine . 
In the USA , MMR has been given for nearly 30 years . 
Researchers found no deaths or permanent damage linked to the vaccine . 
The World Health Organization describes MMR as a ' highly effective vaccine which has such an outstanding safety record ' . 
Wouldn ` t it be better for children to have the vaccines separately ? 
No , giving the vaccines separately would leave children exposed to measles or mumps or rubella for longer . 
These can be serious or even fatal diseases . 
This is not the case . 
Children 's immune systems make excellent responses , naturally protecting them against these diseases . 
The World Health Organization advises against using separate vaccines because they would leave children at risk for no benefit . 
Where MMR is available , no countries recommend giving the vaccines separately . 
Measles is a highly infectious disease and it kills and disables children and adults . 
A recent outbreak in Dublin , caused by parents not having their children vaccinated , left two children dead . 
Mumps was the leading cause of viral meningitis in children before the MMR vaccine was introduced . 
MMR protects your child and your family against measles , mumps and rubella . 
If you missed your MMR appointment , you can get the immunisation at any time . 
No matter who we are or what we do , we all know how precious good health is . 
The plan sets out targets for the nation 's health . 
This is the first time that such targets have been set for England . 
The success of '' The Health of the Nation '' depends on getting the priorities right in all these important areas . 
This booklet tells you about the Government 's aims and how , by working together , we can all help to achieve them . 
It also includes some practical tips for better health , and many good ideas on how we can live healthier lives . 
You , your child and the law . 
Above these ages , it all depends on the drugs the youngster is taking or supplying . 
Maximum sentences for offending against the Misuse of Drugs Act are severe . 
However , young people are unlikely to suffer the worst of these penalties . 
In England and Wales youngsters under 17 years of age are usually dealt with by a Juvenile Court . 
In men , there may be temporary side effects on the reproductive system , such as reduced sex drive and lowered sperm count ; 
These drugs often circulate in gymnasiums and health clubs . 
Heroin can be injected , sniffed or smoked . 
For smoking , the drug is placed on some tin foil or perhaps a spoon and then heated . 
The fumes are then inhaled , a method sometimes called ' chasing ' or ' chasing the dragon ' . 
Regular users say that heroin produces a sense of warm and pleasant drowsiness . 
Most parents are aware that their sons or daughters might be fined or imprisoned for possessing or supplying illegal drugs . 
But many don ` t realise that it is possible to fall foul of the law , even without touching drugs . 
Just allowing anyone on your ' premises ' to produce or supply illegal drugs to another person is itself an offence . 
If you find drugs . 
Do I have to tell the police ? 
Reduce the number of people smoking by about a third ; 
Reduce the incidence of invasive cervical cancer by approximately 20 % . 
Halt the increase in the incidence of skin cancer . 
There are many types of cancers . 
It is possible to help many people recover through effective treatment and care . 
Targets for accident prevention 
Reduce the rate of accidental deaths among children and elderly people by at least a third ; 
Half of accidental deaths happen on the roads and over one third in the home . 
Accidents account for many deaths and injury among children , young adults and elderly people . 
As individuals we can do much to look after our own health and that of our families . 
Hospitals , schools and colleges can also play a part in promoting good health . 
The government also has an important role to play . 
It also publishes information on all aspects of health and health care . 
The contribution each individual or organization makes is important . 
But if everyone works together , then the chance of this initiative making a real difference to our health is much better . 
'' The Health of the Nation '' is a program for both the present and the future . 
sets out the key area for immediate action , and sets targets for the year 2000 and beyond ; 
You and your health 
Because if you take care of your body , it will take care of you . 
Here are some tips to help you enjoy healthier living . 
Enjoy your food ; 
Eat plenty of foods rich in starch and fiber ; 
Look after the vitamins and minerals in your food ; 
If you drink , keep within sensible limits . 
Drinking regularly in excess of 50 units per week for men and 35 units per week for women is definitely dangerous . 
Keep count of how many units you drink each week . 
Exercise can be fun 
Regular physical activity can help control your weight , improve your blood circulation and help your heart work more efficiently . 
It helps you to relax and , not only will you feel better , you will look better . 
By regularly using your muscles , they will be firmer and in much better shape . 
If you normally take the car or use public transport for just a short journey , why not try walking instead . 
Cycle , jog , swim , dance or do anything else you enjoy and that makes you a bit out of breath . 
Go up stairs rather than use the escalator or lift . 
If you smoke , stopping is the most effective action you can take to improve your health . 
One in every five fatal heart attacks is smoking related . 
Smoking is directly responsible every year for about 26COMMA000 deaths in England from lung cancer and over three times this number from other diseases . 
You may think that stopping smoke will not be easy . 
On the other hand , you will never know until you try . 
Nine out of ten have done so without any medical advice . 
Lots of them tried several times before succeeding . 
And for most , the first few days were the worst ! 
After that , the compensations make it all worthwhile . 
Think of the reasons why you want to stop and keep reminding yourself of them . 
Pick a day for giving up . 
Don ` t be tempted to have a cigarette not even one . 
Take one day at a time . 
Every day without a cigarette is a success . 
Some people find it easier to give up with a friend or a group of work . 
You might be able to help each other . 
Think about the money you are saving and what you could use the additional money for . 
The safest way to avoid HIV infection is to remain faithful to one uninfected partner . 
Remember , drug taking is often against the law , and may well damage your health . 
Ordinary everyday social contact with someone who has HIV is perfectly safe . 
For example , the virus can not be passed through touching , sharing cutlery or cups , glasses or plates . 
The service is available 24 hours a day . 
Be safe at home and on the roads 
Each year in England around 4COMMA000 people die and more than 2.5 million require medical attention following home accidents . 
Road accidents account for the deaths of more than a further 4COMMA000 people , including about a quarter of all deaths among school children . 
They are not expensive and can save many lives and serious injuries . 
Keep dangling curtains , bed spreads and drying washing well away form fires and cookers . 
Stop smoking . 
Until you do , ensure that you dispose of ash and stubs safely . 
Never smoke in bed . 
Make sure there is good lighting in hallways and stairs . 
Tips for the roads 
Wear bright colors fluorescent clothing during the day and reflective clothing at night as a pedestrian , cyclist or motorcyclist . 
Seat belts can save your life . 
Always use a seatbelt or properly fitted child restraint when traveling in the car or taxi . 
many signs are just like the normal signs of growing up . 
Sudden and regular changes of mood . 
Loss of appetite . 
Gradual loss of interest in school , hobbies , sport , friends etc 
Uncharacteristically drowsy or sleepy . 
Increasing evidence of lying or other furtive behavior . 
Loss of money or other objects from the house . 
Unusual stains , marks or smells on the body or clothes or around the house . 
If you are getting a war pension then it is possible to get the financial support for your treatment through NHS . 
To check your eligibility or rights get leaflet AB11 . 
To know that which type of drink you can take , send form AG1 to this address 
Nowadays people are living longer than before and they are looking forward to enjoying an active life for longer . 
For dental care and medical and eye tests and for lenses , you can get financial support , depending on your income . 
Whenever you find out about them , write down all the details in your personal records which will be very useful to you . 
Good health doesn ` t just mean good services . 
To keep you in sound health , there is a segment '' Healthy life '' in this leaflet . 
Looking after yourself for health and healthy living 
It is not too late to change your habits and lifestyle . 
As you get older , there is a long effect of wine in your body 
Exercise and dieting are the best way to lose weight . 
If there is a sudden change in your weight and you did not change your diet or exercise then see your doctor immediately . 
Exercise is good for you at any age and it is never too late to start . 
If you are in convalescence or not used to such activity then it is better to consult your doctor first . 
Many local councils provide this facility at a low cost for older people . 
Staying mentally active 
Keeping warm in winter 
This is a good way to keep healthy . 
Going out for a picnic 
Because these schemes run in different manner from place to place , it is better to check all the details before you set out . 
British Rail and National Express coaches both offer economic fare schemes for people over 60 . 
As they get older , many people lose their ability to hear sharp sounds . 
The doctor can also send you to a hospital for a hearing test . 
You may purchase hearing aids from private sellers , but generally these are very expensive and you can not get free batteries and repairs . 
The sellers who provide home services and some attractive aids are costly , so beware of them . 
Lip reading is not only good for deaf people but is also helpful for those who are hard of hearing . 
If you have difficulty hearing the telephone ring , the door bell or the television , you can get some special instruments . 
You can keep your teeth for your whole life by proper attention and car . 
Although skin cancer is becoming a common disease it can be treated easily and fully if detected in good time . 
If you are worried at all then consult your doctor immediately . 
Vertigo or dizzyness 
There may be many symptoms of indigestion . 
A doctor will examine you in a well women clinic or family planning clinic . 
If you smoke you are two and half times more likely to have a heart attack than a non smoker . 
If you live alone , inform a neighbor so they can keep an eye on you and your progress . 
If there is no improvement in 24 hours , consult your doctor . 
There may be less chance of catching flu if you are vaccinated , this is available every year from October from your doctor . 
A healthy life including regular exercise , avoiding smoking and excessive consumption of alcohol reduces the chances of osteoporosis . 
Parkinson 's disease . 
Your doctor will help you and will prescribe some medicines ; he may refer you to a specialist or physiotherapist . 
When there is an obstruction of the blood supply in the brain , a stroke happens . 
Which part of brain is affected depends on the intensity of the stroke . 
If this is the case there is a easy solution through medical aid . 
If you are in contact with a person who is confused , behave in a friendly and calm manner . 
Remember that the confusion is a symptom of a disease and he is unable to concentrate . 
Remind them again and again who you are and what you are doing . 
And assure them repeatedly that everything will be OK . 
Contact SCODA for more details about these services . 
What to do in emergency . 
Should the worst happen and you find your child drowsy or unconscious , it 's important that you know what to do . 
it could save their life . 
First make sure they 've got fresh air . 
As your age grows and you become an old person your mobility decreases in your home and it may be difficult , e . 
Your local government can provide you with more details about them . 
This free help includes suggestions on financial support and ensuring that the work has been completed satisfactorily . 
For more details contact your local authority . 
There is also a benefit inquiries line giving help and suggestions for disabled people . 
For help with rent , housing benefit is available and for your community charge , community charge benefits are available . 
You must apply to your local government housing benefit office for this help . 
It is important to budget for gas and electricity . 
British Gas and electricity companies run many schemes by which you can divide your bills for a whole year according to your convenience . 
Inquire about these schemes from your local gas and electricity show rooms . 
If this is not possible or not effective then you can demand help through a formal complaints procedure which are current in all governments . 
failure to provide a service that ought to have been provided 
refusal to give you information to which you are entitled 
Does the Ombudsman investigate every complaint ? 
provide us with all the information that you can . 
Need any help ? 
Calls are charged at your local call rate . 
What will the Ombudsman do about my complaint ? 
If the Ombudsman thinks that your complaint may be valid , he will make some initial enquires . 
To make that decision , we may need to see the medical records and other papers surrounding your care . 
All information will be kept strictly confidential . 
If you complaint is about clinical care , we will ask one of our clinical advisers to look at your case 
What happens if you do look further into my complaint ? 
A formal investigation 
We may carry out a formal investigation resulting in a detailed report about your case . 
If so , you and the body complained about will be sent a statement of complaint setting out the matters we shall be investigating . 
Our investigation is likely to take at least nine months , as it will be very thorough . 
There is no appeal against the Ombudsman 's findings . 
Before you complain 
Where can I find out more ? 
Our enquires staff will be able to answer any questions you may have about the Ombudsman 's work . 
The local rate telephone number is 0845 015 4033 . 
This symbol alerts people to the fact that personal information is collected by the Ombudsman 's office while we are considering your complaint . 
He will also deal with requests for access to the personal information we may hold about you . 
to rebel or shock people 
because they want to take risks 
because it 's fun 
because it 's the in thing to do 
as an escape from the pressures of living in modern society 
because they are bored ; 
Is the complaint about a NHS Service ? 
Is it about something we can investigate ? 
Have you complained to the organization or practioner involved ? 
Have you requested an independent review of your complaint ? 
Was the review wrongly refused or badly run ? 
Fill in the form at the end of this leaflet , or write to us a letter about your complaint . 
We may be able to help you . 
Find out if another scheme or organization can help you . 
Where you are given a choice of YES NO , tick the revelant box . 
If the answer is no , please go to question 10 
All the originals will be returned after copying . 
Are you sending the Ombudsman all the papers ? 
If not , plesae say , if possible , which papers you can not provide . 
Now they are a thing of the past . 
Waiting in an outpatients department long beyond the appointment time used to be a common experience . 
The Charter may have promoted these improvements but it is staff who have made them possible . 
You said that you wanted us to continue reducing waiting times . 
You said that you would like even more information about services . 
PERSONAL CONSIDERATION AND RESPECT 
You have the right to choose whether or not you want to take part in medical research or medical student training . 
You can expect all the staff you meet face to face to wear name badges . 
For example , meals should suit your dietary and religious needs . 
Staff should ask you whether you want to be called by your first or last name and respect your preference . 
Everyone can expect to be seen within 26 weeks . 
Over time the Government will be working to tighten this standard further . 
YOUR CARE IN HOSPITAL 
If you go to an accident and emergency department you can expect to be seen immediately and have your need for treatment assessed . 
In accident and emergency departments , 9 out of 10 patients are now seen and assessed for treatment as soon as they arrive . 
Consider whether your need for treatment is urgent or whether you could be better cared for by your GP . 
There are many ways for you to influence your children not to try drugs and solvents . 
It 's a basic human need , particularly for parents and children . 
If it stops happening , problems and misunderstandings creep in , and you can become isolated from your children . 
showing you are attentive 
trying to understand what your child is saying to you 
This help should be readily available . 
You can expect enquiry points and clear signposting in all hospitals to help you and your visitors to find your way around . 
You can expect to be cared for in an environment which is clean and safe . 
During the time you spend in hospital you can expect reasonable measures to be taken for your personal protection and safety . 
You can expect to have facilities to keep personal money and belongings safe . 
In these cases , your community nurse , health visitor or midwife should let you know and make another appointment with you . 
SEEING COMMUNITY NURSES AND MIDWIVES 
You can expect to receive a visit from your midwife if you and your midwife agree this is necessary . 
Together you and your midwife will discuss and agree the care you need both before and after your baby is born . 
You have the right to take this prescription to any optometrist or dispensing optician of your choice . 
If you do not need a prescription , you have the right to a written statement telling you this . 
If you are fitted with contact lenses , you can expect 
to be given all the necessary information and instructions about their cost , use and maintenance ; 
YOUR COMMUNITY PHARMACIST 
Pharmacists are health professionals , who are readily available to give advice on treating common problems . 
There are some matters which he can not investigate , and there is a separate leaflet explaining his powers . 
fill in and always carry an organ donor card and tell your relatives about this . 
An '' urban '' area is one where the population density is over 2.5 people per acre . 
This guide covers the main types and describes common effects and methods of use . 
There is a brief indication of slang terms you may hear . 
These terms are best avoided when talking to children as they can trivialise the subject . 
Also you might look silly using slng terms no longer in fashion . 
Some prices are included as a very rough guide only ; prices will vary according to area , availability and so on . 
Solvents sniffing is not illegal ; after drinking and smoking , solvents are the substances young people are most likely to experiment with . 
And most of those who do will only try it once or few times . 
A very few will carry on , sometimes very heavily , for a number of years . 
Who sniffs ? 
Children from any social class and from ' good ' homes may try sniffing . 
It 's more likely to be one of the ' disobedient ' and sometimes risky things that youngsters do . 
Girls sniff too , although perhaps a slightly smaller proportion than boys . 
How do they do it ? 
Because there is a such a wide range of substances there are many ways they can be misused . 
But the effects of sniffing wear off quickly , too . 
What are the dangers ? 
sniffing can have an effect on the heart , so it is followed by exertion or fright , death may be result . 
since many of these products are inflammable there is fire risk , especially when youngsters combine sniffing and smoking . 
Using solvent with other drug , like alcohol , may add to the dangers . 
After all , there are whole businesses devoted to giving people weird sensations , like the fairground industry 
Solvents are cheap and easy to buy or steal . 
Sniffers may be able to exercise some control over their hallucinations and use them as part of group activities . 
Why do they carry on sniffing ? 
A few sniffers may use solvents in an attempt to blot out problems that they already have . 
Use of solvents may temporarily disguise their problems but will generally make things worse . 
But it doesn ` t seem like that to them at the time . 
Any of these might be happening for other reasons . 
Don ` t jump to conclusions . 
Remember , most young people never try solvents . 
As a parent you know your own child best . 
You can build your relationship together through those sometimes difficult teenage years . 
At certain times in their development young people will face particularly difficult problems . 
Perhaps it will be changing school , losing a close friend , being bullied , getting overweight or the death of a loved relative . 
It 's difficult to keep track of all the products that can be sniffed . 
There are so many places where youngsters can get solvents . 
Could the law do more ? 
It 's impractical to make solvent sniffing illegal . 
Anyway , this would make solvent misusers even more secretive and harder to help them . 
Making sniffable substances smell nasty is difficult . 
Manufacturers have had some success in making less harmful products , but these have not always been popular with users . 
Stopping people sniffing one thing may turn them to other substances which might be more dangerous . 
Can we reduce the problems ? 
Treat young people with more respect for their individuality and opinions ; 
Take an interest in young people 's own interests and concerns ; 
Be actively concerned with and involved in children 's school work ; 
Take part in and encourage children 's educational and leisure activities ; 
Set an example by giving up smoking or alcohol ; 
Think about and discuss with young people the way in which medicines and prescribed drugs are used ; 
Keep an eye on sniffable products in the home . 
Store them out of reach ; 
You might be able to get the local youth or recreation service to help . 
Trips out of town , physical activities , and chances to meet other young people are all good ways of making sniffing less interesting . 
Don ` t just leave this to youth workers , but get involved yourself if you can . 
A few young people are really ' stuck ' on glue or other products and it may take a long time to help them . 
It isn ` t a good idea to focus on the use of solvents . 
Helping them with these problems will probably help them to stop sniffing . 
To safeguard their health in the meantime you could give them advice about how to reduce the risk they are taking . 
This might include the fact that aerosols and butane seem to be especially dangerous products , particularly when sprayed directly into the mouth . 
Putting plastic bags over the head is dangerous . 
sniffing alone or in dangerous places , such as railway embankments and by canals , can be more risky . 
Because of the small risk of ' sudden sniffing death ' , discourage exertion and keep the person calm ; 
Remove any solvents and make sure that there is plenty of fresh air ; 
Realise that this is not the best time to discuss their drug or solvent use . 
Stay with them until the effects have worn off . 
Healthy Teeth for life 
Healthy teeth and how to keep them 2 
Eating and drinking for healthy teeth 4 
Tips for toothbrushing 6 
Fissure sealants 12 
The growing child needs teeth to smile and eat with , and to give them confidence . 
How long should they last ? 
After brushing , spit out and don ` t rinse . 
Make sure your child is registered with a dentist . 
What can the dentist do ? 
Fissure sealants can be applied to fissures in molar teeth to protect them if necessary . 
Fluoride supplements can be prescribed to reduce the risk of tooth decay if necessary . 
If I follow this advice can my child grow up free of tooth decay ? 
Eating and drinking for healthy teeth 
How do I help my child to eat healthily ? 
Department of Health 
PO Box 777 
Pipe , water tank or cylinder insulation ; 
How do you get compensation ? 
You should make a claim for compensation when you tell the council you want to leave . 
You will have up to 14 days after your tenancy ends to make a claim . 
If you are not sure , ask your council how to claim . 
The council will need enough information to decide how much compensation you will get . 
Your name and address ; 
What improvements you have made ; 
How much each improvement cost ; 
The value of any improvement will go down as it gets older and as you get more use out of it . 
The compensation you get will depend on how old the improvement is when you claim . 
What if the council won ` t pay any or part of your claim ? 
You can ask your council to reconsider its decision . 
Most councils have their own procedure for dealing with disputes . 
You also have the right to take the council to court . 
But you should get advice from a solicitor or your local Citizens Advice Bureau first . 
You may be able to get legal aid . 
Contact your council 's housing department . 
Is it a licence or a tenancy ? 
What sort of tenancy is it ? 
Can the landlord end the tenancy by refusing to accept the rent ? 
If the tenant does not want to go to court 13 
Further Information 14 
' My Landlord wants me out ' 
The Protection from Eviction Act 1977 
do acts likely to interfere with the peace or comfort of a tenant or anyone living with him or her ; 
or persistently withdraw or withhold services for which the tenant has a reasonable need to live in the premises as a home . 
Repairs which are not completed 
A landlord normally has a right of access to the property to carry out essential repairs . 
He or she should make arrangements with the tenant to gain access at a convenient time . 
This may mean that the disruption , and possibly the disconnection of services involved , causes considerable inconvenience to the tenant . 
Such failure to complete may not be the landlord 's responsibility , and it may be owing to circumstances beyond their control . 
The tenant should take advice as described on page 4 . 
The tenant should call the police where there is actual physical assault . 
The abusive behavior could be prolonged and systematic , or could consist of isolated incidents . 
What is illegal eviction ? 
Do all occupiers need a court order to evict them ? 
However , certain licences and tenancies are excluded from this requirement . 
licences granted to people living in certain publicly funded hostels . 
This means for example that if the tenancy was from month to month , the landlord must give a month 's notice . 
See Notice That You Must Leave and Letting Rooms in Your Home . 
This means that they must not share all of it with some other person who has been granted a separate right to be there . 
An agreement which is called a licence may , however , on the facts of the letting , actually be a tenancy . 
What sort of tenancy is it ? 
For further details see housing booklet Regulated Tenancies . 
Can the landlord end the tenancy by refusing to accept the rent ? 
If the tenant does not want to go to court 
Tenancy relations officers , who are employed by some local authorities , try to resolve disputes between landlords and tenants . 
These leaflets are free and are also available in Welsh , Bengali , Hindi , Urdu , Greek and Vietnamese . 
Published by the Department of the Environment , Transport and the Regions and The National Assembly for Wales . 
Crown copyright 1995 . 
Product code 94FICa 384 . 
Do you rent , or are you thinking of renting , from a private landlord ? 
What is the law ? 
When can I be asked to leave ? 
The landlord can ask you to leave at any time after 6 months , provided any fixed term you agreed has ended . 
He or she must give you 2 months ' notice in writing that he or she wants you to leave . 
Do I have to leave ? 
You should leave at the end of the notice period . 
What other help and advice is available . 
They will also try to tell you about the result of the case . 
Any loss of earnings you have suffered . 
Any receipts , estimates or other documents about any of these things . 
The responsibility for making a claim is yours . 
You can find out more from the leaflet ' Victims of Crimes of Violence , a guide to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme ' . 
Compensation from the Offender 
It is therefore important that you tell the police if you would like to receive compensation . 
They will give you a form on which you should give accurate details of your losses . 
The police will then pass this information to the Crown Prosecution Service who will make sure that the court knows about it . 
Do not contact the offender direct . 
Whether or not the offender is convicted in the criminal courts , you can sue him or her for damages in a civil court . 
Motor Insurers ' Bureau 
Where the offender is uninsured , compensation for personal injury and damage to property may be available from the Motor Insurers ' Bureau . 
Where the offender has not been traced , compensation for personal injury only may be available . 
An offender who disobeys an Order can face a penalty of up to five years imprisonment . 
An offender who breaches the Order can face a penalty of up to five years imprisonment . 
If you are not sure about anything mentioned in this leaflet , ask your local police for advice . 
Victim Support are also willing to help whenever they can . 
You may be feeling shocked , sad , distressed , or angry following the crime you have just reported . 
These feelings are common . 
Paint and paint thinners . 
cannabis is the most commonly used of the illegal drugs . 
Where can I get work permit application forms ? 
What if I want to employ a student ? 
For how long is a work permit valid ? 
If they do not enter Great Britain within six months of the date we issue the permit , it will no longer be valid . 
What if the person or I want to end the employment ? 
What if I need more information about immigration matters ? 
What if I need information about work permits for Northern Ireland , the Isle of Man , Jersey and the Channel Islands ? 
What if I need more Information on Working Time Regulations ? 
Race equality New laws 
Introduce a new and enforceable duty on key public bodies to promote race equality . 
You might also consider contacting your Trade Union or Citizens Advice Bureau . 
How is the duty to promote race equality different to the other provisions of the Act ? 
This requires them to take action to prevent acts of race discrimination before they occur . 
The duty also came into effect on 2nd April 2001 . 
The list of public authorities caught by the duty was widened on 3rd December 2001 and now includes over 25COMMA000 public bodies . 
What is the aim of the specific duties ? 
A number of individuals went to Surjit 's aid but their efforts to save his life were unsuccessful . 
Other officers looked after Surjit 's children while these formalities were attended to . 
This initial contact with members of the Chhokar family was effective and sympathetic . 
Ronnie Coulter was brought to trial in March 1999 , convicted by the jury of assault , and set free . 
The Divisional Commander himself attended the scene of crime immediately after the murder . 
Services for people with drugs problems 
Lots of services are available for those who need help with drugs problems . 
However , this is not a requirement and will not affect how quickly we consider your application . 
However , for permit purposes we will treat you as the employer . 
You may use agencies to identify a trainee but you must apply for the permit . 
It is particularly important to show that your company already has a presence in Great Britain . 
This excludes any time for associated study . 
Additional criteria for training for a professional or specialist qualification 
However , if your company was new at the time of your initial approval please send us the information described in paragraph 10 . 
Training for a professional or specialist qualification 
Change of employment applications 
When should I apply ? 
You should not apply more than six months before you want to bring them to the UK . 
Please apply at least one month , but no more than three months , before this date . 
If the person needs a visa or entry clearance they must apply to their nearest British diplomatic post abroad . 
In these cases we will send the permit and all letters to them . 
Trades Union Congress 
National Union of Knitwear , Footwear and Apparel Trades 
Ian Hay , OBE 
Professor David Metcalf 
Professor of Industrial Relations , 
Stephanie Monk , CBE 
Employers told us that they needed about six months ' notice . 
The Government accepted our recommendation in the first volume on the increase to the main rate . 
We also look at compliance and enforcement and suggest how the minimum wage should be reviewed in future . 
We considered carefully the evidence , both written and oral , which we received from a wide range of organizations . 
And we undertook a program of regional visits throughout the UK to learn from the experience of people affected by the minimum wage . 
Once again we are most grateful to all those who took the time and effort to inform our work . 
We were concerned that if we reported in July businesses would not have sufficient time to prepare . 
What We Did 
We considered developments in the minimum wage systems of other countries . 
A large number of people have benefited . 
The buoyant labor market has undoubtedly helped , as has the prudent approach we took in recommending an initial rate . 
We considered whether , in coping with the minimum wage , firms had attempted to increase productivity of labor or improve their competitiveness . 
Some businesses reported positive changes that increased efficiency ; others reported difficulties . 
Some firms viewed training as part of a wider strategy to improve skills and to compete for workers in a tight labor market . 
We considered it prudent therefore to recommend a small further increase for October 2002 before the minimum wage is reviewed in full again . 
We recognise that this impact will vary across , and within , sectors but believe it can generally be managed . 
We estimate that any impact on inflation will be small , as is the likely impact on public sector finances . 
We have recommended a small increase in 2002 before the rate is fully reviewed again . 
Young People and Training 
There is also no evidence of any adverse impact on the New Deal , on apprentices or on training provided by employers . 
The relativity between the Development Rate and the main rate has protected employment and training opportunities without any adverse impact on incentives to work . 
Impact on Incomes 
The minimum wage has led to a small reduction in poverty rates . 
And by providing a guaranteed level of income in work , the minimum wage increases the incentive to move into work . 
Compliance and Enforcement 
We are not complacent , however , because some workers continue to be underpaid . 
The Government made additional funding available for supported employment in 1999 2000 . 
Formulaic uprating would not satisfy this requirement . 
Reviews also need to be frequent enough that the minimum wage does not lose its effectiveness as a wage-floor wage floor . 
Hence we recommend biennial reviews , with the Commission reporting in February to allow sufficient notice of implementation the following October . 
Its impact must be kept under review . 
Choosing a New Rate 
Young People and the Development Rate 
The age coverage of the Development Rate should be kept under review . 
Compliance and Enforcement 
Future uprating should be based on recommendations by the Low Pay Commission resulting from consultation and analysis of a comprehensive range of factors . 
There should be biennial reviews reporting in February for implementation in the following October . 
Babies and children 
A guide to benefits and tax credits for anyone expecting a baby or caring for children 
Babies and children 
Financial help is always welcome when bringing up children . 
This leaflet gives basic advice on the benefits and tax credits you may be able to get . 
We want to make sure you and your family get the right help , at the right time , in the right way . 
See Where to get help and advice on page 16 of this leaflet for details . 
We have made every effort to ensure that the information in this leaflet is correct at the date shown on the cover . 
Check first what benefits or tax credits you may be able to get . 
If you want to know how much you have to earn to be relevant for NI purposes , contact your social security office . 
If you work for an employer you have special rights such as 18 weeks maternity leave . 
You have the right to 13 weeks parental leave to care for your child . 
check Income Support see page 11 . 
The Social Fund see page 12 . 
Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit see page 13 . 
Help with health costs see page 13 . 
Free milk for disabled children see page 14 . 
New Deal for Lone Parents see page 14 . 
see page 15 . 
Where to get help and advice 
see page 16 . 
Not everyone gets much effect from cannabis . 
Sometimes there can be temporary anxiety or mild hallucinations 
One of the main dangers of cannabis is the state of intoxication itself . 
The person may not be able to drive , cross roads or operate machinery safely . 
People do not become physically dependent on cannabis , but can become psychologically dependent for enjoyment , or coping with life . 
If you want to know how much you have to earn to be relevant for NI purposes , contact your social security office . 
You must tell your employer at least three weeks before you intend to stop work . 
You can choose when to start getting your SMP . 
The earliest you can start getting SMP is in the 11th week before the week your baby is due . 
The latest you can start getting SMP is in the week after your baby is born . 
Your employer can not pay you SMP for any week in which you work for them . 
If you have more than one job , you may be able to get SMP from each employer . 
If you can not get SMP 
The earliest you can start getting MA is in the 11th week before the week your baby is due . 
The latest you can start getting MA is in the week after your baby is born . 
You can not get MA for weeks when you are working . 
If you can not get SMP or MA 
Paid NI contributions ? 
If you have claimed MA you do not need to claim again for Incapacity Benefit . 
You can not claim Incapacity Benefit for weeks when you are working . 
You can get Incapacity Benefit from 6 weeks before the week your baby is due until 14 days after the baby is born . 
Help with the cost of things for a new baby 
You can claim from 11 weeks before the week your baby is due , until 3 months after the baby is born . 
The grant is affected by savings over 500 , or 1COMMA000 for people over 60 . 
If you are adopting , your baby must be aged under 12 months . 
You should claim within 3 months of adopting . 
If your baby is born by surrogacy , you or your husband or wife must have a parental order . 
You should claim within 3 months of the order being made . 
For people bringing up a child or children 
Paid for each child 
Not affected by income or savings 
Is aged under 16 ? 
You do not have to be the child 's parent to get Child Benefit . 
For people bringing up a child because one or both parents has died 
The parents were divorced ? 
The surviving parent can not be traced or is in prison ? 
If YES to one of the above , claim Guardian 's Allowance . 
You do not have to be the child 's legal guardian to get Guardian 's Allowance . 
You may also be able to get Guardian 's Allowance if the child 's parents were never married . 
Help with the cost of bringing up a child 
If you are not claiming any of these benefits , you may still be able to get child support maintenance . 
For widows bringing up children 
Based on your late husband 's NI contributions 
Bringing up at least one child or expecting your late husband 's baby ? 
The widow of a man who has paid NI contributions ? 
Not all children count for WMA . 
WMA is not affected if you work . 
For people who work and bring up a child or children 
For one and two parent families 
Savings over 8000 usually mean you can not get Working Families ' Tax Credit 
Working on average 16 hours a week or more ? 
If YES to both , apply for Working Families ' Tax Credit . 
You may be able to get help with childcare costs . 
You may get more Working Families ' Tax Credit if you or your partner work 30 hours a week or more . 
You can usually get extra money for your family . 
You may be able to get Income Support if you or your partner are not working because of parental leave . 
Children with special needs 
You can get this from your social security office . 
The Social Fund 
If you want more information get leaflets GL16 Help with your rent and GL17 Help with your council tax . 
You can get these from your local council offices or your social security office . 
Help with health costs 
Free NHS sight tests 
You must not obstruct inspectors . 
They may write to you informally asking you to put right any problems they find . 
Where breaches of the law are identified which must be put right they may serve you with an improvement notice . 
They can detain or seize suspect foods . 
Such a notice must be conformed by the Court . 
What you can do if you think the outcome is not fair ? 
If disagreement remains after that you could approach your local councillor . 
You do not need to get any benefits 
If you delay you may lose benefit . 
For Child Benefit , claim when your child is born or comes to live with you . 
To get Statutory Maternity Pay tell your employer you intend to stop work . 
Do this at least three weeks before you intend to stop . 
You can also obtain the name and address or make an appointment to see your local County Councillor . 
A Magistrates ' Court must confirm the emergency closure of a business or the seizure of food . 
If magistrates decide premises have been shut without proper reason , or food has been wrongly seized or detained you have right to compensation . 
by the end of 2000 , all the high street banks offered a basic bank account available to all . 
Where programs have been slow to deliver results , for example on truancy , the Government is intensifying action . 
what to expect when your business is inspected under the Act ; 
what to do if you think the outcome of an inspection is wrong or not fair . 
This leaflet is issued for food business in England ; Separate leaflets will be issued in Scotland and Wales . 
The leaflet in intended as guidance and is not a complete statement of the law . 
Practical Food Safety for Businesses 
What exactly is HACCP ? 
Analysing the potential hazards in an operation ; 
Identifying the points in the operation where the hazards may occur ; 
Deciding which are critical to consumer safety . 
Remedial action , specified in avance , is taken if conditions at any CCP are not within safe limits . 
Food businesses have the main responsibility for ensuring the protection of their customers . 
A business that breaks the law faces the legal sanctions including improvement notices , prohibition notices and prosecution . 
So if you run a food business you need to take care that you meet your obligations . 
Many more businesses have yet to discover HACCP , or to put it into practice . 
The advantages . 
Efficient it concentrates the control effort at the critical steps in the operation ; 
Economical it uses checks which can be done cheaply , quickly and easily , such as measuring time and temperature , and visual assessment ; 
Prompt fast checks allow rapid response when action is needed ; 
On the spot the process is controlled on the spot by the operator , not by a laboratory remote from the operation . 
How to set up HACCP for your business 
The team may be large or small , depending on the operation . 
It should be composed of people who know and understand the business 's food products and their uses . 
To find out more about Disabled Person 's Tax Credit , phone the information helpline on 0845 605 5858 . 
If you use a textphone the number is 0845 607 6078 . 
Voluntary work can be anything from being a good neighbor to working with charities or other organizations such as social services departments . 
Volunteers give their time without pay , but they may get reasonable expenses . 
JSA and voluntary work 
You can do as much voluntary work as you like . 
You must tell your Jobcentre if you do any voluntary work . 
You must also tell us if you are paid in any way . 
This includes things that are sometimes called payment in kind . 
Income Support and voluntary work 
You can do as much voluntary work as you like . 
You must tell your social security office if you do any voluntary work . 
You must also tell us if you are paid in any way . 
This includes things that are sometimes called payment in kind . 
For more information , contact your social security office . 
You can do as much voluntary work as you like . 
The voluntary work must not be for a close relative . 
You must tell your social security office if you do any voluntary work . 
You must also tell us if you are paid in any way . 
For more information , contact your social security office . 
If you get one of these benefits , you must tell your local council about any kind of payment you get . 
They may be able to ignore some of these payments when working out your benefit . 
For more information , contact your local council . 
Other social security benefits are not usually affected by voluntary work . 
A hazard is anything that can harm the consumer and can be physical , chemical or microbiological . 
The team then identifies the steps that can be controlled to eliminate each hazard or minimize the likelihood of it occurring . 
These are CCPs . 
It also lays down the Limits outside which action , eg referral to management or consultation with other experts , is needed . 
This will include maintaining records of the HACCP process as well as the controls monitored at the CCP for each batch of food . 
The design and operation of the HACCP scheme should be reviewed whenever the food operation is altered , however slight the alteration may seem . 
Earnings from therapeutic work affect Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit in the normal way . 
Other benefits you get because of a sickness or disability are not affected by therapeutic work . 
The Social Fund 
Help with exceptional expenses which are hard to pay out of your regular income . 
For Budgeting Loans you must have been getting one of these benefits for at least 26 weeks . 
If YES to one , you can get help with health costs . 
If NO , you may be able to get help with health costs through the NHS Low Income Scheme . 
If you want more information get leaflet HC11 Are you entitled to help with health costs ? 
Calls are confidential . 
If you delay you may lose benefit . 
If you have received a Winter Fuel Payment before and you still get the same benefits , you will usually get your payment automatically . 
We have made every effort to ensure that the information in this leaflet is correct at the date shown on the cover . 
However , changesin the law may make the leaflet become gradually less accurate . 
Leaflet WK1 from October 2000 . 
City Council Health Services and Volunteer and Private Organization provide special services to people with learning disabilities for their requirements . 
People with learning disabilities should also get every opportunity to take part in the social activities of the local community . 
How to get help 
If you think you only need help from a health or social services welfare committee , then contact that organization directly . 
You will be asked different questions if you are eligible . 
Probably a proposal will be put for your care , in which any of the services mentioned below may be included . 
Manchester Social Services funds different types of residential services . 
Schemes to find houses for adults , who help those individuals who want to live with their family . 
This scheme has already started rendering short term help to affected people with learning disabilities and their carers . 
A short term facility is provided to the physically handicapped along with their carers in 5 houses in the city . 
In a house in South Manchester people with behavioural difficulties are given services . 
Children are sent back along with other families to their homes by the home scheme . 
To help you , we 've arranged the booklet in four sections . 
A quiet word about noise and formal action 
What to do about noise from neighbours , local commercial and industrial premises and vehicles . 
Additional noise controls 
Byelaws and specific controls to deal with noise from construction sites and loudspeakers . 
Planning to stop the noise 
Contacts for other organizations with an interest in noise and details of other informaion leaflets 
In this booklet we hope to give you some brief but useful information on how to overcome noise problems . 
Noise is generally regarded as unwanted sound . 
It could be too loud , too intrusive or just happen at the wrong time or without warning . 
Taking formal action 
When informal action is not possible or fails , you can resolve the problem by taking formal action . 
The most common route involves complaining to your local authority about the noise problem . 
All landlords , whether social or private , have powers to take action against tenants who are breaching their tenancy agreement . 
A person on whom an abatement notice has been served has the right of appeal within 21 days of it being served . 
Best practicable means 
This recognises that there can be technical and other limitations as far as industry is concerned . 
When the nuisance arises on industrial , trade or business premises , the maximum fine is 20COMMA000 . 
The most common time for them to use this power is to stop misfiring burglar alarms . 
When this happens a warrant has to be obtained for entry and the local authority officer must be accompanied by a policeman . 
As well as dealing with existing problems , these controls also cover noise that is expected to occur or recur . 
For legal purposes , noise includes vibration . 
Give fair warning of your action 
Deliver your notice by post or hand and make sure your letter is dated and you have kept a copy . 
Working with the court 
When you contact the court , tell them you wish to make a complaint under section 82 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . 
This will show the magistrates that you have an arguable case . 
If you serve the notice , you should keep a careful record and ensure that the notice is served well before the hearing date . 
When the time comes for the hearing , you will have to attend court to give evidence . 
You do not need to have a solicitor to represent you at the hearing , although you may do so if you wish . 
You will need to be prepared for the possibility of having to pay the costs of taking the case to court . 
Getting help with costs 
If you are going to represent your own case , the Clerk of the Court may give you advice and guidance . 
The outcome , win or lose 
The order may also prohibit or restrict a recurrence of the nuisance . 
The court may also impose a fine at the same time as making the order . 
These costs will be awarded whether or not the nuisance still exists or an abatement order is made . 
If an order is made the court will generally require the noise maker to pay your costs . 
What if the noise maker persists ? 
The theory is that when people no longer achieve a ' high ' from cannabis , they try something stronger . 
However , there is nothing ' in ' cannabis itself which predisposes users to try heroin . 
These drugs stimulate the nerve system , banish tiredness for a time and produce feelings of alertness and confidence . 
This is the most common illegal stimulant . 
One dose of amphetamine can last three to four hours . 
The procedure for initiating a future case will be the same as for the original proceedings . 
Advice from a solicitor may be free or subsidised to those who are financially eligible under the ' Green Form Scheme ' . 
There are additional controls which can help to stop or reduce noise from particular sources . 
Some local authorities have made byelaws to control some noise sources . 
additional noise controls 
Loudspeakers in the street 
Your local authority has powers under section 62 of the Controlof Pollution Act 1974 to deal with loudspeakers in the street . 
A local authority is not required to serve an abatement notice and offenders are automatically subject to prosecution . 
Noise from construction sites 
Those planning to undertake such work can consult their local authority before proceeding , and ask them to make their requirements known . 
The Act introduces an objective standard against which noise at night , from domestic premises , may be assessed . 
section 3 bothered by noise 
planning to stop the noise 
Structure and local plans are prepared by local planning authorities and noise should be taken into account when preparing such plans . 
There is scope for public participation during the preparation of plans . 
Applications for planning permission are made to local planning authorities . 
Representations can be made to them about planning applications . 
Applications which are in accordance with development plans should be allowed , unless other material considerations indicate otherwise . 
Noise is often a consideration in determining planning applications . 
If you require further information about plan preparation or a particular planning application you should contact the planning authority for the area . 
Objections should be sent to the highway authority during the objection period , explaining your reason for objecting . 
section 4 bothered by noise 
Noise at work 
Noise from road vehicles 
Certain types of noise may constitute an offence under Road Traffic law , e . 
Complaints about noisy aircraft should be made to the following numbers 
Contacts in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland 
other useful contacts 
The product may be capable of killing eggs , as well as lice , but there is no certainty of this . 
This aims at systematic removal of live lice by combing through the hair and physically removing any lice found . 
The Stationery Office publications . 
Implementation responsibility will be decided as part of this process . 
The SEU 's remit covers only England and references within the report to ' national ' initiatives relate only to England . 
Over the course of a year there are 129COMMA000 runaway incidents , involving 77COMMA000 young people under 16 running away . 
In 1997 there were over 21COMMA000 runaway incidents in London and over 10COMMA000 in Manchester . 
Young people with driving licences are twice as likely to get jobs than those without . 
People travel 42 per cent further than in 1975 . 
Transport policy focused on predicting and providing for traffic growth rather than managing demand . 
Tax and spending decisions and bus deregulation allowed bus fares to rise much faster than motoring costs . 
These have produced more scattered destinations and lower density housing , both of which have undermined the viability of buses , cycling and walking . 
They very often cause itching , but this is not always the case , particularly when recently arrived on the head . 
Head lice can not fly , jump or swim , but spread by clambering from head to head . 
Head lice feed by biting and sucking blood through the scalp of their host . 
Head lice are not fussy about hair length or condition . 
encourage higher density development including housing to help create more viable public transport networks . 
Fruits and walnuts are grown here in plenty and also medicinal herbs . 
The State of Himachal has a natural beauty all its own . 
It has 36 cities and 16COMMA916 villages . 
This ended the rule of the Sen family in Spiti . 
He has made detailed references to the Trigarta or the Jullender areas . 
His references indicate that the political systems prevalent in these areas were of a primitive kind . 
The temples and palaces built during the period also throw light up on this period . 
There are few instances of theft or trickery . 
They have their own customs , traditions , religious beliefs , dances and music which make an interesting study . 
Kengyur and Tengyur are their religious texts . 
Both have some 108 volumes each . 
Temperamentally they are a gentle and softspoken people , quite content to live in poverty . 
They love to drink and to eat meat . 
The women however , do not drink . 
Their marriage customs are also very interesting . 
All the brothers in a family share a wife . 
However , with the rise in the literacy level this sytem is fast dying out . 
This is why all pregnant women are now offered a blood test early in pregnancy to see if they have hepatitis B . 
What is hepatitis B ? 
Many people with hepatitis B infection have no symptoms at all and do not know that they are infected . 
About 1 in 5 of these carriers develop serious liver disease later in life . 
In the Patan valley in Lahaul Spiti there are a few families belonging to the Samvegala . 
They follow the Shaiva sect of Hinduism and worship the Lingam and snakes . 
They have a system of joint families . 
Two brothers may have one wife and occasionally a woman may have more than one husband . 
One such family has 105 members who are working at different places . 
Families numbering between 8 to 21 are common . 
GujjarsThe Gujjars are a nomadic tribe . 
They are wanderers and like living in tents or under the open skies . 
Milk and corn meal are their staple food . 
According to the last census figures their number in the hp was 20644 . 
He praised them to their King and expressed a desire to have them come to live in his kingdom . 
They love embroidery . 
The central Government is trying to provide them with permanent accommodation . 
Sangh is also making efforts in this direction . 
This tribe has also settled in Mandi , Kangra and Bilaspur but their largest numbers live in the Kangra district . 
According to the 1971 census figures , they numbered 50COMMA680 . 
Before the advent of the machines they also earned their living , by pounding millet and carrying loads . 
Their marriage customs are similar to those of the Hindus . 
Their houses are small , surrounded by gardens and full of decorative articles . 
Most of them are in the armed-forces armed forces . 
The Buddhist temple , the palace of the Dalai Lama and Tibetan dispensary are great tourist attractions here . 
Each village has people belonging to different castes and income groups . 
These tribes also help each other in following the rituals and customs at the time of a death or a birth . 
The larger farms lie outside the villages and are owned by a few rich landlords . 
The new land reforms and legislations have changed the situation to a certain extent . 
The farms are named after the types of soil , rivers or rivulets or gods and goddesses . 
The villages follow a Panchayat system . 
The sister is highly respected and other relationships are also given due importance . 
In the hill areas stones are used instead of bricks and timber is used for the roofs . 
The cattle houses are close to the house . 
Shiva is the chief god especially among the Gaddis . 
Kulu , Sirmaur , Mandi and Kangra have numerous holy temples and ponds to prove this . 
There he found the white bull and the black bull and suspended above them the Brija stone . 
But even after all this , the earth seemed empty and colourless without man . 
So at the end shiva decided to create man . 
At that time , due to his Tejas , a lotus flower grew out of his navel , upon which sat lord Brahma . 
Since then the moon has been cool and the sun , scorching hot . 
The Moon changed himself into a cock and began to crow at midnight . 
As the Rishi entered the river , the river told him about Indra 's trick . 
If they become infected , their infection could be passed on to their close family and other contacts in the future . 
Can my baby be protected from hepatitis B infection ? 
Your baby can be protected from infection by a full course of hepatitis B vaccine . 
When should my baby have hepatitis B vaccine ? 
Your baby should have the first dose of vaccine soon after they are born . 
Your baby will need further doses of vaccine for full protection against infection . 
Why it is important for a full course of vaccine to be given ? 
It is essential that your baby receives the full course of vaccine at the right ages for it to work . 
Is hepatitis B vaccine safe ? 
Are there any side effects ? 
In some babies , the site of the injection may become does not last for long . 
Will it be safe to breast feed my baby ? 
Will having hepatitis B infection affect my pregnancy and delivery ? 
When they saw the young cow \* herd milking their cows , they realized that there was something divine and magical about the spot . 
At night a village elder had a dream which indicated that there were seven goddesses buried beneath the spot . 
After a while the goddesses decided to divide the paternal property and migrate to different spots . 
When the young girl began churning , all of a sudden enormous lumps of butter appeared in the pot . 
The valley where she wept turned black ; the earth there is still black in color . 
This village with its peculiar social patterns , language and administrative system is very dissimilar to other villages in the state . 
If he defies this custom , he has to sacrifice a goat to Jamlu as a gesture of contrition . 
ged Aganpal to come forward and fight man to man . 
The god , however , used his divine powers and won each time . 
Even now the villager consider him to be a protector of their lives . 
She was surprised to see this strange stone and tried to crack it with another . 
He commanded the then priest of the temple to perform some miracle . 
The priest pleaded with the king not to give in way to his vanity , but the king peristed . 
If they still refuse to take the hint , he manifests his wrath in a series of physical ailments like failing eyesight or conjunctivitis . 
The school was located outside the village . 
Could my partner and other children have hepatitis B ? 
If you have concerns about other people finding out that you have hepatitis B infection , please discuss them with your midwife or doctor . 
Do I need to see a doctor because of my hepatitis B infection ? 
The antenatal clinic or your family doctor should refer you to a specialist for assessment and advice about managing or treating your own infection . 
This will not be necessary until after you have had your baby . 
If you have any other questions or concerns , talk to your doctor or midwife . 
The addresses and phone numbers are at the end of this leaflet . 
If you are eligible for an assessment you will be asked a range of questions about the help that you need . 
Other people involved in your care may also be consulted , for example a relative , friend or your GP . 
A care plan may then be designed for you with your agreement . 
Social workers specialising in HIV AIDS issues who are either hospital or community based . 
Specialist staff in the physical and sensory disability service who work on HIV AIDS issues as part of their responsibilities . 
Most people with HIV AIDS are cared for in their own homes . 
Inpatient care is at Monsall Hospital , Withington Hospital and Manchester Royal Infirmary . 
Users say that the drug has a calming effect with heightened perceptions of colors and sounds . 
These squares often carry colourful abstract designs or pictures of cartoon or film characters such as the Pink Panther . 
' Magic mushrooms ' grow wild in many parts of the country and it is not illegal to pick and eat them raw . 
They may have a severe headache or shy away from bright lights . 
They may develop a stiff neck , feel sleepy or become confused . 
Again , a rash of red or purple spots or bruises anywhere on the body is a very serious sign . 
What kinds of immunisation are there ? 
Researchers around the world are working to produce more effective vaccines against these infections . 
Unfortunately , the vaccine does not work in small children , who are most at risk . 
How is meningitis treated ? 
MMR Information Pack for Health Professionals 
The decision to immunise your child is never simple . 
What is MMR ? 
It is given to children at 13 months and again before they go to school . 
The second dose protects anybody who did not respond to the first dose . 
This usually gets better on its own , but if you see spots like this , show them to your doctor . 
If the child is treated quickly , he or she will recover fully . 
People giving immunisations are trained to deal with allergic reactions . 
The table below compares the serious effects of the disease and reactions to MMR . 
Children affected after the natural disease 
Children affected after the first dose of MMR 
No , autism was well known long before MMR was ever used in this country . 
There was no sudden increase in autism when MMR was introduced . 
Extensive research into this possibility shows that there is no link between MMR and autism . 
A personal message from the Chief Medical Officer 
'' No parent of a young child can have missed the worrying headlines about MMR over the past few years . 
I have no doubt that MMR is the safest way for parents to protect their children . 
I understand how difficult it can be for parents to get the facts they need to make a positive decision . 
We have produced this leaflet to pull together clear , scientifically sound facts and advice on MMR . 
The leaflet draws on the latest studies both here and around the world . 
Professor Liam Donaldson 
Chief Medical Officer for England 
It may even be harmful to give the vaccines separately . 
You can get more information from your GP , health visitor or practice nurse . 
The practice of giving the vaccines separately may be harmful . 
Yet many of the cases of heart disease and stroke are all things we can do something about . 
Smoking , raised blood pressure , raised blood cholesterol levels , being overweight , and lack of exercise can all contribute to these diseases . 
We do not fully understand the causes of them all , but there are steps we can take avoid some of them . 
There is also a national screening program for cervical cancer . 
This cancer can usually be prevented before it develops . 
Skin cancer can mainly be prevented by a sensible approach sun bathing . 
It kills 26COMMA000 people a year in England . 
Because of this '' The Health of the nation '' includes specific targets for each of these age groups . 
Many aspects of our general health are linked to our sexual behavior . 
AIDS is one of those diseases about which we still have much to learn . 
Go easy on cakes and biscuits try fruit instead . 
Eat plenty of vegetables , and salads . 
One unit of Alcohol = 
One single measure of spirits 
Many people enjoy drink . 
If you care about your health , then care about how much you drink . 
Remember that alcoholics also a major cause of accidents . 
Don ` t drink before driving , or before using dangerous machinery , or after taking medicine . 
NHS eye testes and vouchers for glasses 
Claiming back fees 
After filling in both forms send them in to the address given above . 
Don ` t forget to enclose the recipt as evidence of your expenses . 
Be aware that you have to claim for expenses within a month from the date of the receipt . 
To get back money which you have spent on glasses or lenses 
But we can do more to improve our quality of life . 
Ageing is not a disease , everyone faes this process . 
Although the ideal healthy life must start from childhood and continue through the life . 
And it is not too late to stop smoking and feel better . 
Actually stopping smoking is a very important way by which you can improve your health . 
All kinds of smoking are bad for you , like cigarettes , cigars and pipes . 
There is less chance of surviving after a heart attack . 
Every year many people quit smoking successfully and there are many aids available . 
There is a description of how to quit smoking in the quit pack . 
The food we eat provides energy and nutrition to live and enjoy life . 
If you don ` t have variety in your diet then there is a risk of illness . 
On the other hand , excessive eating also leads to some health problems . 
There must be variety in a balanced diet . 
Choose always red meat or pieces of poultry . 
Avoid excess quantity of salt and sugar . 
Ensure that you consume a lot of drinkable beverages . 
Vitamin D is essential to keep bones healthy and we can get it from oily fish , mauserien or cereals for breakfast . 
Some regular uncover will also help you for this . 
But to protect your skin from sunburn it is advisable to use sun screen cream during sun bathing . 
There is less possibility of harm if alcohol is used in a controlled quantity . 
But it harms a lot when it is used excessively . 
There is one unit of alcohol in a half pint of normal beer , one small glass of spirits or one glass of wine . 
Ask at your local library , Citizen 's Advice Bureau or other advice organization for more help . 
Write to them , detailing your complaint . 
Write to the Trust or Health Authority involved , asking for an Independent Review . 
It will help the Ombudsman if you fill in the form as far as you can . 
Please read the leaflet carefully before you decide to make a complaint . 
The leaflet tells you what the Ombudsman can and can not investigate . 
About your complaint 
Papers to support your complaint 
The National Health Service is a service for everybody . 
For many people and their families it is the most important public service in their lives . 
Patients must always come first . 
This was the message at the heart of the Patient 's Charter when it was launched four years ago . 
Since that time the Charter has had an enormous impact on improving the quality of services . 
Of course things sometimes go wrong and the Charter makes clear the standards that ought to be reached . 
However , a great deal has been achieved . 
Waits of over two years for an operation were once not unknown . 
listen to and act on people 's views and needs ; 
set clear standards of service ; 
provide services which meet those standards . 
sets out your rights and the standards of service you can expect to receive ; 
introduces a number of new national standards ; 
Exceptional circumstances may sometimes prevent these standards being met . 
receive health care on the basis of your clinical need , not on your ability to pay , your lifestyle or any other factor ; 
get emergency medical treatment at any time through your GP , the emergency ambulance service and hospital accident and emergency departments ; and 
receive detailed information on local health services . 
Many health authorities and hospitals have their own charters , adding to and improvig on national standards . 
Your hospital should openly display information on their Charter performance in public places . 
These show how local hospitals and ambulance services are doing against some of the national standards . 
arrangements for giving you the results of any medical tests ; 
arrangements to help you look after your health ; 
facilities for parents with children ; 
facilities for people with disabilities ; 
More and more GP practices are producing their own charters for their patients . 
You will be told their name . 
Please call 999 only in emergencies . 
Dental , optical and pharmaceutical services 
acknowledge your comments , suggestions and complaints within two working days ; 
sort out informal complaints within one month of getting them ; 
give you and your GP a progress report every month until your complaint has been sorted out . 
If you want to pursue a complaint about hospital or community services , contact the general manager or chief executive of the hospital concerned . 
Moodiness may be a result of sniffing , but many teenagers are moody without having tried solvents . 
Finding quantities of empty butane , aerosol or glue cans , or plastic bags in a place where you know your child has been . 
Chemical smell on clothes or breath . 
Sudden change in behavior or lifestyle , for example going around with a new set of friends . 
Loss of appetite . 
Asking for money without explaining what it is for . 
To you these might not always like severe difficulties , but for young people problems like these can loom large . 
Your help can make all the difference . 
You are the expert on your child . 
Only a few prosecutions have been brought under this Act . 
If they persist , the police can be informed . 
This booklet deals only with harassment of people whom somebody is trying to drive out of their homes . 
It can take many forms short of physical violence . 
It may not always be obvious to outsiders that particular sorts of activity are intended to drive the tenant from the property . 
On the other hand there may be cases where a landlord has good reasons for doing things which could be interpreted as harassment . 
There are things the tenant can do in a wide range of circumstances , some of which are outlined below . 
\* At time of going to press 
Where should I go for advice ? 
If physical violence is involved , her or she should contact the police . 
Local authorities have the power to start legal proceedings for offences of harassment and illegal eviction under the Protection from Eviction Act . 
If the evidence justifies it , they can carry out an investigation and prosecute if they believe an offence has been committed . 
A local authority also has compulsory purchase powers which it can use in certain circumstances where there is very bad harassment . 
Is this harassment ? 
Withdrawal of services 
In certain circumstances , not supplying a key may constitute harassment . 
A person who is a friend of the landlord has moved in next door and is making life unpleasant for the other tenants . 
Demand for excessive repairs 
In some circumstances , if the works are the tenant 's responsibility , he or she may be eligible for an improvement grant . 
Check with the local authority . 
Failure to carry out repairs 
the structure and exterior of the home , including the drains , gutters and external pipes ; 
the installations for the supply of water , gas and electricity and sanitation , which he or she must keep in proper working order ; 
Local authorities have powers to oblige a landlord to carry out repairs . 
major repairs , and 
If the landlord then fails to do so , the council may carry out the works itself 
A tenant should not be reluctant to complain to the local environmental health or housing department for fear of victimisation . 
The Housing Act 1988 should help to reassure tenants who complain to their local authority about the condition of their home . 
Get Help for You and Your Child 
Your child may need more help than you can provide . 
Think about people you know who might be able to help . 
There are many agencies and groups who will also be willing and able to support you . 
There is more information about these at the end of this leaflet . 
You will need support if you are to be able to give the best you can to your child . 
Look for Gradual Change If your child is taking drugs regularly they are not likely to stop suddenly . 
Any improvement may be gradual , with , perhaps , some slip ups on the way . 
The tenant should continue to offer the rent , and should seek advice from a solicitor , housing aid center or Citizens Advice Bureau . 
Can a tenant be compensated for having been harassed or illegally evicted ? 
Normally the market value of an untenanted property is greater than the value of the property with the tenant in it . 
A tenant may want to return home despite the events that have caused him or her to leave . 
Any housing advice center and Citizens Advice Bureau should also be able to give advice on landlord and tenant issues . 
This is not necessarily as difficult or offputting as the tenant might imagine . 
Your council 's housing department will be able to give you advice about this . 
How does your Right to Manage work ? 
often members of the organization should meet ; 
the organization 's committee members should be elected ; 
If your tenants ' organization wants to have the Right to Manage , it must tell the council in writing . 
It must also tell the council which homes it wants to manage . 
When you take up the Right to Manage , you can get free help and advice from a professional advice agency . 
You should apply to your local authority to see if you are eligible and , if so , how much you can claim . 
What happens if I get into rent arrears ? 
What if my housing benefit is delayed ? 
What can I do if I think the rent is too high ? 
Victims of Crime 
This leaflet explains what will happen now you have reported a crime to the police . 
How the crime will be investigated and what will happen if you have to go to court ; 
How you may be able to get compensation if you have been injured or if your property has been stolen or damaged ; 
In some cases the suspect may be facing more serious charges for other offences and may be prosecuted for those offences instead . 
They decide whether there is enough evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction . 
This means they must be satisfied that it is more likely than not that the person accused will be convicted of the charge . 
They must then consider whether a prosecution would be in the public interest . 
But if you are concerned about the release of case details , tell the police officer dealing with your case . 
sudden changes of mood from happy and alert to sullen and moody ; 
unusual irritability or aggression ; 
loss of appetite ; 
loss of interest in hobbies , sport , schoolwork or friends ; 
increased evidence of telling lies or furtive behavior ; 
unexplained loss of money or belongings from the home ; 
unusual smells , stains or marks on the body or clothes , or around the house ; 
What about the Law ? 
The Role of the Court 
The court must take account of the offender 's circumstances and ability to pay . 
So if the court does decide to make an order , it may not be for the full amount of your loss . 
It is the job of the court to make sure that the offender pays the compensation . 
to be given advice about applying for compensation for personal injury from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; and 
to be given crime prevention advice by the police if you ask for it . 
report the crime to the police promptly ; 
give the police full details of your injury or loss ; 
tell the police if you want compensation ; 
tell the police if you do not want your name and contact details passed to Victim Support ; 
For any type of crime , you can also contact them yourself at a later date if you prefer . 
Because resources are limited , victims whose cars are stolen or vandalised will not normally be referred to Victim Support . 
If you need help , tell the police officer in your case or contact Victim Support direct . 
avoid hazardous manual handling operations , and where they can not be avoided , reduce the risk of injury 
provide health surveillance as appropriate ; 
provide free any protective clothing and equipment , where risks are not adequately controlled by other means ; 
ensure that appropriate safety signs are provided and maintained ; 
As an employee you have legal duties too . 
correctly using work items provided by your employer , including personal protective equipment , in accordance with training or instructions ; and 
Where can I get work permit application forms ? 
What if I need general information about applying for a work permit ? 
For how long is a work permit valid ? 
What if I need more information about immigration matters ? 
What if I need information about work permits for Northern Ireland , the Isle of Man , Jersey and the Channel Islands ? 
What if I need more information on the National Minimum Wage ? 
What if I need more Information on Working Time Regulations ? 
They publish leaflets , booklets and videos and know about local agencies who can help . 
Day Projects , Information and Advisory Services 
This applies whether the forms are copied or downloaded from our website . 
What if I need general information about applying for a work permit ? 
Support Services for Families of Drug Users 
ADFAM National is the charity for the families and friends of drug users . 
Contact SCODA for more details . 
What will the specific duties mean for those planning and running and those receiving public services ? 
Those responsible for providing public services will need to ensure that their policies and services are fair . 
The specific duties require key bodies to prepare and publish a Race Equality Scheme describing their public functions that are relevant to the duty . 
There are separate duties for schools , and further and higher education institutions . 
What do the duties mean for public sector employers and employees ? 
In their role as employers , public bodies need to ensure that their procedures and practices are fair . 
Bodies subject to the general duty and which employ staff will be subject to specific employment duties . 
These will help them to promote race equality within their own workforces and employment practices . 
Thereafter Mr Chhokar was given contact details for any queries he might have , but the police took no further initiative to make contact . 
Mr Chhokar telephoned to ask about the date for the trial , and was told when the sitting would commence . 
After the trial , the Lord Advocate met the family . 
There is a need for more research , professionally carried out . 
The latter is an issue for the entire legal profession , and for the university Law Schools . 
The report was originally prepared as a confidential document , but was published before it had been completed . 
The methodology was inadequate , and this Inquiry has not relied on the internal report , but has gone back to the primary sources . 
The conclusions however , which are reviewed in detail , largely accord with the findings of this Inquiry . 
This is an unpublished document , but the Inquiry has been given access to it and has examined it critically . 
The remit given to the reviewing officer was vague and unfocused , and the review itself lacked rigor . 
These are our standards of service for handling work permit applications . 
They are the minimum standards you should expect . 
We hope that you will play your part in helping us achieve these standards . 
Working in partnership will help us give you a high quality , efficient service . 
We aim to decide 50 % of complete applications within one day of receipt and 90 % of applications within one week . 
What we need from you 
The guidance notes will help you . 
If you do not , this may delay the decision . 
This will tell you how we are dealing with your complaint and when you can expect a full reply . 
This will normally be an appropriate senior official . 
Published in Great Britain by the Home Office , Moorfoot , Sheffield , S1 4PQ 
How do I get advice about the passports ? 
How do I appeal against a decision ? 
They should resume their training or work experience at the stage they had already reached with their previous employer . 
We will approve only for the balance of the period agreed in the original application . 
You must fill in and sign the employer declaration in all cases . 
EYE SIGHT TESTS are free for some people find out if you qualify 
Do you see the road signs as clearly as you used to ? 
Do your arms get longerevery time you read a newspaper ? 
How do I appeal against a decision ? 
You may need your eye tested . 
Most people 's eye change as they get older . 
Many who have never worn glasses may find they to need them for reading or watching television . 
Look at the list below . 
If you belong to one of these groups , contact your local optician now and ask for a free NHS sight test . 
How do you qualify for a free NHS test ? 
If you have a low income . 
Further copies of this summary can be obtained by telephoning 0870 150 2500 and quoting '' URN 01 959 '' 
Transport & amp ; General Workers Union 
Chairman 's Foreword to the Report Summary 
Key to this is our recommendation on the way that the minimum wage should be reviewed in future . 
As one of the Commissioners has noted , this has been a shared and mutual education . 
We have laid a firm foundation on which a future approach can safely be built . 
June 2001 
The Government asked us to report by July 2001 with a view to it implementing changes in October 2001 . 
As a result of the minimum wage , the overall earnings distribution and the gender pay gap have narrowed . 
Our latest estimate of the initial impact of the minimum wage on the national wage bill is 0.35 per cent . 
This is lower than the estimate in our second report , largely because of the reduction in the estimated number of beneficiaries . 
If you or parner get income support or family credit . 
If you are regigtered blind or partially sighted . 
If you are diagoned diabetic or are suffering from glaucoma . 
If you need certain very strong lenses . 
Food Law Inspections and your business 
Choosing a New Rate 
Who will inspect your business ? 
Environmental health officers and trading standards officers have the right to enter and inspect food premises at all reasonable hours . 
They do not have to make an appointment and they will usually come without notice . 
They carry out routine inspections and may also visit as a result of a complaint . 
How often routine inspections happen depends on the potential risk posed by the type of business and its previous record . 
Some premises may be inspected at least every six months , others much less often . 
Inspectors will look at the way you operate your business to identify potential hazards and to make sure it complies with the law . 
They will discuss any problems with you and advise on possible solutions . 
They also have powers which they can use when they think it necessary to protect the public . 
What are you entitled to expect from the inspectors ? 
If you and your partner are on a low income and any of the following apply 
you are sick or disabled 
you are aged 60 or over 
you are a lone parent 
you are caring for someone who is ill or disabled 
For more information , contact your social security office . 
Paid by your employer 
A courteous manner ; 
To be shown identification ; 
Feedback from any inspection , such as information about hazards which have been identified and Guidance on how they could be avoided ; 
To be given the reasons in writing for any action you are asked to take ; 
Where there is an apparent breach of law , a statement of what that law is ; 
Reasonable time to meet statutory requirements , except where there is an immediate risk to public health ; 
to be told the procedures for appealing against local authority action . 
What powers do inspectors have ? 
They can take samples and photographs , and inspect records . 
This will be a priority for Departments ' work programs , for the next spending review , and for future SEU reports . 
Financial help if you work or are looking for work 
If you are looking for work you need to know what services we can offer . 
You and anyone who depends on you may also need financial help until you start work . 
Or if you are working but do not have enough money coming in , you may need help to make ends meet . 
This leaflet gives basic advice on help you may be able to get . 
We want to make sure you and your family get the right help , at the right time , in the right way . 
See Where to get help and advice on page 32 of this leaflet for details . 
Help you may be able to get 
Check first what help you may be able to get . 
If you and your partner are on a low income and any of the following apply 
you are sick or disabled 
you are aged 60 or over 
you are a lone parent 
you are caring for someone who is ill or disabled 
check Income Support see page 12 . 
Employment on Trial 
Out of work and looking for a job ? 
Prepared to try out a new job but are concerned about how it will work out ? 
If YES to both , ask your Jobcentre about Employment on Trial . 
You must not have done any paid work in the 13 weeks before starting your new job . 
Employment on Trial only applies if you are in work for more than 4 weeks , but not more than 12 weeks . 
If you give up the job during this period , your Jobseeker 's Allowance will not be reduced because you left your job voluntarily . 
You will still have to claim Jobseeker 's Allowance again when you finish your job . 
Thinking of starting your own business ? 
If YES to both , ask your Jobcentre about Business Start Up . 
Under the New Deal you will have a personal adviser who will help you to look for a job 
There are Disability Employment Advisers for people with a disability 
For more information , contact your Jobcentre 
Aged 18 to 24 ? 
Claiming JSA and you have been unemployed for 6 months or more ? 
If YES to both , ask your Jobcentre about New Deal for Young People . 
New Deal for people aged 25 plus 
Aged 25 or over ? 
Claiming JSA and you have been unemployed for 2 years or more ? 
Thinking of starting work ? 
If YES to all , ask your social security office or Jobcentre about New Deal for Lone Parents . 
Been claiming for a partner ? 
If YES to both , ask your Jobcentre about New Deal for Partners of Unemployed People . 
If YES , ask your Jobcentre about New Deal for Partners of Unemployed People . 
We use partner to mean a person you are married to or a person you live with as if you are married to them . 
New Deal for people aged 50 plus 
Aged 50 or over ? 
For people who work and bring up a child or children 
Working on average 16 hours a week or more ? 
If YES to both , apply for Working Families ' Tax Credit . 
Income Support because of sickness 
If you want to start some work that your doctor thinks will help with your sickness or disability 
If you will be working on average less than 16 hours a week 
If you will be earning less than a certain amount a week . 
Checked that your doctor thinks this work will help with your sickness or disability ? 
Got the chance of work that is part of a medically supervised treatment program or in a sheltered workshop for people with disabilities ? 
If you want any other information on the Social Fund , get leaflet GL18 Help from the Social Fund from your social security office . 
Help with health costs 
Vouchers towards the cost of glasses or contact lenses 
Income Support ? 
Can anyone use the HACCP system ? 
It is important to remember that the details will vary as no two businesses are exactly alike . 
But similar principles would apply to any food business . 
Further advice and assistance can be obtained from the food research associations , other reputable consultants and local environmental health departments . 
Health and Social Services employees jointly provide services from the same office in South Manchester . 
Leaflets with more detailed informaiton on these sevices are available . 
a quiet word about noise and formal action 
Consider talking to the person or company responsible for the noise and point out the problem . 
You may find they are unaware that they are disturbing you . 
Remember , we may all be guilty of making noise at some time without knowing it . 
Mediation could be the answer 
If the direct approach does not succeed , you may want to consider mediation . 
An independent third party will listen to the views of both parties and can help them to reach an agreement or compromise . 
You can obtain details about the location of services in your area from Mediation UK on 0117 9046661 . 
The prevention and treatment of Head Lice 
Head lice are well camouflaged and hide when disturbed by combing . 
They do not always cause itching , particularly when recently arrived on the head . 
They may also be few in number and a quick inspection is unlikely to detect them . 
Wash the hair using ordinary shampoo , then use a wide toothed comb to straighten and untangle the hair . 
Once the comb moves freely through the hair , without dragging , switch to a fine tooth comb . 
Actual size in stages of growth of the head louse . 
Check all family members at the same time and arrange treatment when lice are found . 
If you find lice , then there are two options . 
You may therefore wish to undertake occasional checks during hair washing sessions . 
Do not use lotions or rinses unless you find a living moving louse . 
Elsewhere , complaints should be made directly to aircraft operators or aerodrome owners . 
Compensation from noise from aerodromes 
Further information on the insulation of dwellings against noise from the construction or use of new or altered roads is available from 
Noise and Statutory Nuisance Act 1993 ISBN 011 753410.2 
Further copies of leaflet are also available at the above address . 
Background and next steps 
It has now been decided that the SEU will lead a project on young runaways working closely with other Government departments and outside organizations . 
develop recommendations on how to make running away less likely and ensure runaways ' short and long term needs are safely met . 
To reduce the inequalities in pollution and child pedestrian accidents between deprived communities and the national average . 
Clearer accountability at a local level to improve access work , learning and health care , through accessibility and impact planning . 
Many mythologically and historically famous towns are located along the banks of these rivers . 
Fruits and walnuts are grown here in plenty and also medicinal herbs . 
Lice hang on tight to the hair , usually close to the scalp where there is warmth , food and shelter from detection . 
Full grown lice take the opportunity to move from head to head during close contact . 
Younger lice tend to remain for about 6 days on the head where they have hatched . 
Head lice need to maintain contact with a host in order to survive . 
There is no need to wash or fumigate clothing or bedding that comes into contact with head lice . 
According to the Rigveda many human tribes occupied the area before the arrival of the Aryans . 
After 1930 , the freedom movement gained strength here . 
The Brahmin priests and astrologers help them practice their religion . 
Some prominent Brahmin branches are those of Shrotriyas the Dixits , the Nagas , the Panch Karmas and the Padhes . 
The Rajput soldiers from Kangra and Hamirpur areas are well known for their qualities of bravery and loyalty . 
Ghirath , Chahang , Suni are a few other castes where people are professional farmers . 
The Ahirs own windmills and catch fish . 
The Doomna work with cane and create beautiful objects for daily use . 
All these castes are divided into the categories of Kachha , Pakka , Nagar Kotiya and Bhatedu . 
The farmers and labourer classes only wore kurta , a loincloth and a cap . 
They are open , warm and completely reliable . 
How can you get hepatitis B infection ? 
Hepatitis B virus is carried in the blood and body fluids . 
From an infected mother to her baby during birth ; 
Why is hepatitis B infection serious for babies ? 
Sunar went up to the sleeping king and painted some golden alphabets upon his palm . 
Sunar agreed to do so , but said that he would first have to heat them in fire . 
He then came and offered it to the goddess , but only after having first hidden the gold of the alphabets among the ashes . 
The Pandavas then chopped off the ear of the dead demon king and buried it in the foundation of the goddess 's temple . 
Cocaine and crack . 
Cocaine is a white powder which is usually sniffed , but can also be injected . 
Crack or freebase is cocaine that can be smoked . 
The effects start after about 20 minutes and can last several hours . 
The five initial choices were made form the many discussed during the last year . 
They will be reviewed on a regular basis , and the new key areas may be added or substituted in the future . 
The Government has set a series of challenging targets in each key area . 
The key areas 
Reduce the number of people smoking by about a third ; 
Mental illness targets 
Improve significantly the health , social functioning and quality of life of people who are mentally ill . 
Reduce the national suicide rate by 15 % . 
Mental illness can take many forms , including depression and anxiety , as well as more serious disorders such as schizophrenia . 
The cost is high in term of human misery and family suffering . 
Many people do not realise that they have been infected with HIV until they develop symptoms of AIDS . 
This may not happen for many years . 
Although the number of cases of gonorrhoea has been declining over the last ten years this has not been the case more recently . 
What we can do ? 
The main aim of the '' The Health of the Nation '' is to improve the health of the people of England . 
If we are going to create a healthier nation , we all have an important role to play . 
As well as developing tolerance to the drug , regular heroin users are often in poor health because of an inadequate diet . 
They often suffer from constipation and among women the menstrual cycle is often interrupted . 
Injecting can be one of the most dangerous ways of taking drugs . 
Some companies are specialist and provide all facilities for older people , e . 
You and Your Body 
Many changes take place in the human body as you get older . 
But it is necessary to bear in mind that you may suffer from the conditions described in this section or the following section . 
In this section there are details of changes which come with age ; most of them are preventable if action is taken against them 
When you go to the optician , check whether you are entitled to free eye examination on the NHS . 
If you are in a lower income category , then you can get a voucher for your glasses on the NHS . 
Two diseases frequntly affect the eyes of older people but both are curable . 
Glaucoma can be treated by eye drops , tablets and surgery 
People who suffer from glaucoma , or their relatives over 40 , are entitled to free eye examinations . 
Make sure you have good light when reading or sewing , this will help you . 
When you are in need of light , try to avoid intense light bulbs . 
Brush and clean them carefully and take regular advice from your dentist . 
Those people with a lower income can get help for the treatment of their teeth . 
Check whether your footwear is a comfortable fit . 
Don ` t wear slippers all day . 
Your doctor will be able to refer you to an NHS chiropodist . 
You should fill in the information on the back of this guidance leaflet or prescription before it submit to your pharmacist . 
Don ` t use after its expiry date , which is generally mentioned on the label . 
Do not mix drugs which you have purchased earlier from a pharmacist with drugs prescribed by a doctor or pharmacist without checking . 
Keep them away from children 
When you use medicines , ask your doctor for advice on drinking alcohol . 
Contact SCODA for more details . 
But you can help yourself too . 
Do as much exercise as you can without harming the arthritic joints . 
Swimming in particular is very good for this . 
If there is pain in the joint , than take some rest . 
If it is an ankle or knee , then support your legs . 
Both diseases interfere with the oxygen supply through the blood and generally lead to coughing and breathlessness . 
But you can help yourself . 
The blood pressure is how the heart pumps blood to all the body organs . 
It may cause pain in your waist and reduction of your height . 
Older people get easily depressed during physical illness and bereavement . 
Lack of interest and joy , loss of weight and appetite , insomnia and avoiding common social activities are common symptoms of depression . 
Antidepressant tablets take away depression although they are habit makers also . 
Because their benefits are not shown before two or three weeks , it is necessary to continue the treatment . 
It may be too laborious to take care of others whether you realise it or not . 
Discuss with your doctor and ask you Social service departments who are eligible for other helps and arrangement . 
Your home may be a favourable place or an adapted place where care can be easily performed . 
Bereavement Loss and sorrow are shocking experiences . 
There are many stages of bereavement and people go through them according to their speed and ability . 
Members of minorities . 
If you feel that a link worker can help you , ask your doctor . 
Some people feel some support when they meet the people who are facing the same problems of language and culture . 
Sometimes community centres provide advice about health problems and they can arrange a bilingual in surgery or clinic if there is no same facility . 
On special health issues there are many types of books , videos and audio tapes available . 
Inquire from your doctor and the health motivator unit of your district health authority what facilities are available . 
Keep torches handy . 
Rubber mats may perish easily so change them regularly . 
Fix rails by the bath tub for movement when you 're using it . 
Such trays are available , and they are especially designed for older people . 
Make it more difficult for them by changing the security in your home . 
Don ` t let them in while you 're not sure about them . 
Don ` t keep a large amount at home . 
If you go away , stop the newspaper and milkman . 
Help Prevent your children using drugs 
But it 's much better if they learn the facts from you than from their classmates behind the bike sheds or from watching TV 
If you don ` t talk to your child about drugs , someone else will . 
Your support can help your children to cope if they come under pressure to use drugs . 
Why Do They Do It ? 
If not , does the next of kin support your approach to the Ombudsman ? 
About the organization you are complaining against 
This new expanded and updated Charter responds to those views . 
It introduces new standards in more areas and improved waiting time guarantees . 
For the first time ever we have set a national standard for waiting for a first appointment as an outpatient . 
because drugs are easy to get hold of . 
Many of these reasons for trying drugs and solvents might seem ridiculous to us . 
However , they might seem very real to our children . 
Whose Children Get Involved with Drugs ? 
There is not always an obvious explanation for it . 
What 's important is that you can help influence your children not to start using drugs or solvents . 
How You Can Help Your Children ? 
Copies are available from the Health Literature Line on 0800 555777 . 
You have the right to be registered with a GP . 
You have the right to change your GP easily and quickly . 
If you have changed GP , you can expect your local FHSA to send your medical records to your new GP quickly . 
This means within two working days for urgent cases and six weeks for all other cases . 
be offered a health check when you join a GP practice for the first time ; 
You have the right to be described appropriate drugs and medicines . 
opening times and how to make appointments and what you should do if you have to cancel ; 
you have to order no more than your next two meals in advance ; 
you have a choice of the size of portion you want ; 
you are given the name of the catering manager ; 
A certificate in the pharmacy will show your pharmacist 's name . 
You can see a pharmacist without an appointment . 
When any medicine is not in stock , you can expect to be told when it will be available . 
Tell Them About You 
Children often find it hard to believe you were young once ! 
You might want to point out that being able to talk through problems is helpful . 
There 's some truth in the saying '' a problem shared is a problem halved '' . 
Young people often feel that they are facing problems that nobody else in the world has ever had before . 
IF YOU WANT MORE INFORMATION 
Call free on 0800 665544 for information on any NHS service . 
This will help us to see someone else instead ; 
Butane gas and aerosols may be sniffed from bags , but are sometimes sprayed directly into the mouth . 
Some may put their heads inside a plastic bag . 
Where do they do it ? 
So people can sniff while walking around , they can sniff in school or anywhere around their home . 
They may sniff in bed , using bedcovers as a tent to contain the fumes . 
What are the effects ? 
Young and inexperienced users run greater risks . 
If solvent misusers become unconscious they may choke on their own vomit . 
If they have problems , help is not at hand . 
Some people are more vulnerable than others to the harmful effects of solvents and may suffer lasting damage . 
Why do they do it ? 
It just means showing them that you are sensitive to their problems . 
Try looking at the world through their eyes ! 
Although you can ` t be around all the time , your children want to feel you 're always interested in them . 
Firmness does not mean having to be aggressive . 
It means making sure your views and feelings are known and that you want your child to respect them . 
If you are consistent , you can stop your children saying that you are '' being unfair '' . 
If they do say it , it won ` t be true ! 
If you set your stall out , your children know what 's on offer and what to expect . 
Do Things Together 
Spending time with your children and talking to them are important . 
But it 's also worth planning things you can do together regularly . 
It 's vital for children to have interests which give them an alternative to using drugs . 
Encourage these interests , and you will have done something very important for your child . 
Make Friends with Their Friends 
Usually a child trying drugs for the first time will do it with a group of friend . 
Friends can have a lot of influence on what your child does . 
Your child can feel under a lot of pressure to go along with the crowd . 
Let them have somewhere they can be together . 
That way , you can still have some influence over what they do . 
Remember Your Child Is Unique 
All children have strengths , and they all need to feel valued and good about themselves . 
Sometimes those strengths can be hard to find , but they do exist . 
You can help your child develop and build on them . 
In turn , this makes them want to do more constructive things than use drugs . 
Why do teeth decay ? 
A sticky film of bacterial plaque constantly forms on teeth . 
Plaque bugs convert the sugars in foods and drinks to acids . 
The more often that sugary foods and drinks are taken , the greater the risk of tooth decay . 
How can I protect my child 's teeth ? 
There are four things you can do . 
Limit the amount and number of times a day your child has sweetened foods and drinks . 
So try to limit your use of foods containing these . 
Should I help my child to brush their teeth ? 
What 's the best way to brush ? 
What does fluoride do for teeth ? 
How does fluoride work ? 
What fluoride does my child need ? 
Can my child have too much fluoride ? 
What is a fissure ? 
Fissures are the grooves and cracks on the chewing surfaces of the back teeth . 
What is a fissure sealant ? 
It is a plastic coating which is painted onto the grooves and cracks on the chewing surfaces of the back teeth . 
When should fissure sealants be applied ? 
Fissure sealants can be an important part of your child 's preventative dental care . 
They may also be applied to milk teeth . 
Set an example 
Of course , all these substances are quite legal , but the way you use them is an example to your children . 
It gives them signals about how you regard drugs . 
What Not to Say 
What do I need to do and when do I need to start thinking about this ? 
whether or not you would like vitamin K to be given to your baby 
if you do , whether it is given by mouth or by injection . 
This leaflet will help you do just that . 
We hope the information given in this leaflet will help you to make your choice . 
Of course , there 's no substitute for talking the issues through with your midwife , health visitor or doctor . 
You won ` t always be able to see the bleeding . 
What 's the risk ? 
Very small . 
But this slight risk is eliminated when your baby is given a vitamin K supplement in sufficient amounts . 
If Your Child Is Already Using Drugs 
If you find out your child is using drugs or solvents , stay calm and don ` t panic . 
Have you got the facts right ? 
How can you keep the communication lines open ? 
Be firm , consistent and caring , but disapproving . 
that it 's illegal and could lead to trouble with the police ; 
The Right to Compensation applies to nearly all council tenants . 
Where a tenancy ends because of the death of the tenant , or other special circumstances , you can still claim compensation . 
Your council can tell you if you qualify . 
Do you need permission to make improvements ? 
You should get permission first , you can apply for it when you claim for compensation . 
What kind of improvements can you get compensation for ? 
The Right to Compensation applies to improvements which were started on or after 1 April 1994 
Central heating , hot water boilers and other types of heating ; 
The council can also take off any money you owe it from the compensation you get when your tenancy ends . 
What can you claim compensation for ? 
If you have not got an invoice , tell the council straight away and give them a rough idea of the total cost . 
' My Landlord wants me out ' 
protection against harassment and illegal eviction 
This booklet does not give an authoritative interpretation of the law ; only the courts can do that . 
The Protection from Eviction Act 1977 2 
Where should I go for advice ? 
Withholding keys 5 
Demand for excessive repairs 6 
Failure to carry out repairs 6 
Repairs which are not completed 8 
Threats and physical violence 8 
Illegal eviction 9 
What is illegal eviction ? 
Do all occupiers need a court order to evict them ? 
that drug taking could affect their health now and in the future . 
If your child 's health or behavior shows that they are taking drugs regularly , you must take further action . 
Bear the points above in mind . 
Your support for your child is vital whatever the circumstances . 
You can build your relationship with them and show that you love and care for them . 
Reassured children find it easier to bear the pressure as they try and come to terms with what they are doing . 
Text phone 0870 1207 405 . 
Remember , even though you have the Right to Manage , the council still owns your home . 
What services can you manage ? 
The management agreement lists all the services you can manage yourselves . 
It 's not your fault ! 
Young people don ` t always take drugs because they have deep personal problems or to show how they reject your way of life . 
Repeated drug taking can have serious results . 
How Do You Know If Your Child Is Using Drugs ? 
It 's not easy to tell , particularly when a child first takes drugs or only takes them occasionally . 
Many of the signs are like those of growing up . 
Be sure of your facts before you do anything . 
However , the landlord can not force you to leave , but may apply to a Court for a possession order . 
the rent and when it is payable ; 
any rent review arrangements ; 
the length of any fixed term . 
Can I get help with the rent ? 
My tenancy began before 28 February 1997 . 
What is my position ? 
Your landlord may agree to let you stay longer but he or she does not have to . 
Your landlord can only seek to evict you on grounds of rent arrears if you owe at least 3 months or 13 weeks rent . 
give them as much information as you can about the offence ; 
tell them if the offence was made worse by racial abuse or hatred directed at you . 
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT ? 
The police will try to catch the criminal , but they may not always succeed . 
You can ` t get compensation twice for the same thing from public funds . 
the police to investigate the crime ; 
to be contacted by Victim Support , unlessyou ask the police not to pass on your details1 ; 
Those who commit the more serious offence of making someone fear violence can receive a fine and or up to five years imprisonment . 
If the offender is convicted of breaching the restraining order he or she faces a penalty of up to five years in prison . 
The magistrates will decide if the grounds for an Order have been satisfied . 
But it is possible to break the law , even without touching drugs . 
Just allowing anyone on your '' premises '' to produce or to supply illegal drugs to another person is an offence . 
If You Find Drugs . 
Do You Have to Tell the Police ? 
Where Can Parents Get Help ? 
What you should know 
Your health , safety and welfare at work are protected by law . 
Your employer has a duty to protect you and keep you informed about health and safety . 
You have a responsibility to look after yourself and others . 
This leaflet is a brief guide to health and safety law . 
It does not describe the law in detail , but it does list the key points . 
any change which may substantially affect your health and safety at work , eg in procedures , equipment or ways of working ; 
make arrangements for implementing the health and safety measures identified as being necessary by the assessment ; 
if there are five or more employees , record the significant findings of the risk assessment and the arrangements for health and safety measures ; 
appoint someone competent to assist with health and safet responsibilities , and consult you or your safety representative about this appointment ; 
prevent or adequately control exposure to substances which may damage your health ; 
HSE priced publications are also available from good booksellers . 
What can I do if I have been discriminated against ? 
Claims against the immigration authorities concerning a decision about entitlement to enter or remain in the UK will be heard by the Immigration Appellate Authorities 
Claims regarding public appointments will be heard in the High Court or Court of Session . 
Employment and training cases continue to be heard by employment tribunals . 
Where can I get help if I have been discriminated against ? 
What role will the Commission for Racial Equality play ? 
What action can be taken against a body failing to comply with the duty to promote race equality ? 
Will there be further changes to the legislation ? 
Reviews conducted on such lines can do nothing to build confidence that the police are sufficiently focused , even yet , on racial issues . 
Recommendations are made for the conduct of future reviews . 
Conclusions and recommendations 
The police officers who came to the scene made it their first priority to save his life , if they could . 
The recommendations of this Report are tempered by that . 
What you can expect from us 
What we need from you 
How to appeal against a decision 
How to make a complaint 
What you can expect from us 
If you have not made a work permit application before , please read these notes before filling in the form . 
Conditions of employment 3 11 
Work for which we do not issue training and work experience permits 3 12 
Criteria for training for a professional or specialist qualification 3 19 
Criteria for work experience 4 29 
Types of applications 4 35 
Conditions of employment 
Also the application must comply with any requirements for registration or licensing necessary for the employment . 
See paragraph 41 of the General Information leaflet for where to get more information on NI contributions or tax . 
Three attempts may be allowed in exceptional circumstances . 
We count each exam not taken at the expected time as a possible attempt . 
If the work experience is likely to take longer than 12 months to complete you should explain this in your initial application . 
These applications can be approved for a maximum of 12 months . 
To find out more about Working Families ' Tax Credit , phone the information helpline on 0845 609 5000 . 
HRP is not a benefit , but a scheme which helps protect your basic Retirement Pension . 
If you get Child Benefit in your name you will usually get HRP automatically , if we have your NI number . 
If you are a woman , you can not get HRP for any year you pay reduced NI contributions . 
You can get more information from leaflet CF411 How to protect your state Retirement Pension if you are looking after someone at home . 
You can get this from your social security office . 
Help with exceptional expenses which are hard to pay for out of your regular income 
For Budgeting Loans you must have been getting one of these benefits for at least 26 weeks . 
For Crisis Loans you do not have to be getting any benefits 
Budgeting Loans and Crisis Loans have to be paid back , but they are interest free . 
Funeral Payments usually have to be paid back from out of the estate of the person who has died . 
For other benefits , contact your social security office for a claim form . 
Before you fill in your form , check that you are applying for everything you may be entitled to . 
It is important that we can be sure of your identity when you make a claim . 
We may need to ask you about your background and look at any official documents you have to support the information you give . 
Where to get help and advice 
To get more information or other leaflets get in touch with your social security office . 
For your nearest social security office , look for the Benefits Agency display advert in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
You can get more information from the DSS website . 
They will personally deal with straightforward enquiries such as requests for tourist or public transport information . 
Even when the Centres are closed we provide a service . 
This system works via a touchpad and offers one of the widest ranging computer information services in the country . 
And many groups are affected by several different problems like these . 
Only when these links are properly understood and addressed will policies really be effective . 
There are also particular times when people are most vulnerable , such as when leaving home , care or education . 
It followed that it would benefit everyone in society if social exclusion could be reduced and made less likely in future . 
Why had social exclusion become so bad ? 
If you want to start some work that will help you with your sickness or disability check Therapeutic work see page 27 . 
The Social Fund see page 28 . 
Help with health costs see page 29 . 
How to claim see page 30 . 
Where to get help and advice see page 32 . 
For your nearest Inland Revenue office , look in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
Help from your Job center 
As soon as you need work , you should contact your local Jobcentre . 
If you need benefits , you may lose money if you do not claim straight away . 
If you want to claim benefit for your partner , please also have their NI number ready . 
For more information , contact your Jobcentre . 
We will give you information about what you can do to find a job and what we can do to help . 
We will give you information about Jobseeker 's Allowance and other benefits you may be able to get . 
We can also offer advice on career direction and training . 
We can provide a personal adviser if you have a disability . 
If you are aged 16 or 17 , you should contact your Careers Service office first , 
If you are capable of working 
If you are available for work 
If you are actively seeking work 
You must have paid or be treated as having paid a certain number of NI contributions . 
For details of the NI contributions you need to have paid , contact your Jobcentre . 
You can usually get extra money for your family . 
Pregnant women and children under age five get free milk and vitamins . 
The rules are different for share fishermen , check with your Jobcentre . 
We will also discuss how your job search is going and if we can help . 
As well as seeing us every two weeks , you must also come to regular , more detailed interviews to look at your situation . 
If you are aged 60 or over you can choose to get Income Support and will not have to come to the Jobcentre . 
You will not usually be able to get Jobseeker 's Allowance until you have a Jobseeker 's Agreement . 
This means it could be up to four weeks before you get a payment . 
For more information or to claim JSA under the hardship provision , contact your Jobcentre . 
For people on a low income 
If you have to sign on at the Jobcentre , you can not get Income Support 
Aged 16 or over ? 
On a low income ? 
Not working , or working on average less than 16 hours a week ? 
If you have to sign on at a Jobcentre , you may be able to get Jobseeker 's Allowance , see page 8 . 
If you choose JSA you will usually have to go to the Jobcentre every 2 weeks . 
If you have a partner who works an average of 24 hours a week or more you can not usually get Income Support . 
Pregnant women and children under age five are entitled to free milk and vitamins . 
You can usually get extra money for your family . 
To see if you can get Income Support because of a low income , check with your social security office . 
Social Fund Crisis Loans 
Help in an emergency or disaster 
You do not need to be getting any benefits 
You may be able to get a Crisis Loan if you are waiting for your first payment of benefit . 
Voluntary work does not count towards the 16 hours . 
You may be able to get help with childcare costs . 
You may get more Working Families ' Tax Credit if you or your partner work 30 hours a week or more . 
To find out more about Working Families ' Tax Credit , phone the information helpline on 0845 609 5000 . 
Disabled Person 's Tax Credit 
Savings over 16COMMA000 usually mean you can not get Disabled Person 's Tax Credit 
Aged 16 or over ? 
Working on average 16 hours a week or more ? 
Restricted in the type of work , or number of hours , that you can do because of illness or disability ? 
Then check the questions below . 
Severe Disablement Allowance 
If YES to any , apply for Disabled Person 's Tax Credit . 
Disability Living Allowance 
Savings over 3COMMA000 usually affect how much Disabled Person 's Tax Credit you can get . 
You may be able to get help with childcare costs . 
If YES to one , you may be able to do the work and continue to get these benefits . 
But check with the office that pays your benefit before you start work . 
If you can carry on getting Incapacity Benefit or SDA , it will not be affected by your earnings . 
If you get Income Support , it will reduce if your average earnings are more than a certain amount a week . 
Check with the office that pays your benefit . 
You may be able to get Income Support for another reason . 
Each area would have a named person in charge of coordinating services for runaways similar to the model developed by Coventry Police . 
In the long term , runaway incidents could be logged on the Connexions tracking database to ensure that repeat runaways are prioritised . 
There could be a National Service Framework for running away to ensure better joint working and resourcing . 
Children from the lowest social class are five times more likely to die in road accidents than those from the highest social class . 
Sixteen per cent of people without cars find access to supermarkets hard , compared with six per cent of people with cars . 
Social , cultural and sporting activities 
What stops people getting to key places ? 
They depend primarily on walking to get around , but also on buses , lifts from family and friends and taxis . 
This includes focusing shops , leisure facilities and offices in town centres and encouraging more efficient use of land . 
It also covers complementary policies which encourage outreach , home and virtual delivery of services . 
What are the barriers to success ? 
Nor do they target programs to ensure some communities do not suffer disproportionately from the impact of traffic through pollution and child pedestrian accidents . 
Spending is not tied to outcomes such as improved journey times , accessible vehicles , punctuality or customer satisfaction . 
This reflects falling operating costs during this period . 
However , tender costs are now rising sharply due to driver shortages and commercial operators withdrawing routes . 
The majority of transport spending benefits people on higher incomes because they are more likely to use rail and travel longer distances . 
Over the next few months , the SEU will be working with other departments to develop these in more detail . 
The ideas under consideration would be subject to spending review decisions . 
A final report in the autumn will provide further details . 
Better information and consultation would be needed to ensure pockets of deprivation , such as in rural areas , are addressed effectively . 
This should ensure that social exclusion objectives are given due weight alongside economic and environmental goals , including through transport appraisal mechanisms . 
We would welcome any comments on this report . 
The SEU intends to publish a final report later in the year . 
The oldest temple of saint Manu is located here . 
Other rishis too performed Tapas here Ashramas of some of them like Vashishtha , Vyasa and Bhrigu are located here . 
Farishta writes that he was not challenged by the local army and he carried back within him several camel loads of gold and silver . 
The Panchayat is responsible for development work within the village . 
The people worship the land and it is supposed to be sinful to steal or sell it . 
However , most quarrels in the villages have a woman or land problem behind it . 
The land is the farmer 's sole , property , although at times he is forced to pawn it . 
The fallow land within or outside the village is called Shamlat . 
It is considered communal property where the cattle may graze and the children may play . 
The settlement follows the caste pattern . 
Their food habits are simple and change from region to region . 
Most tribals love to drink , although the higher castes consider drinking sinful . 
In the hill areas Roti made of barley or corn is popular . 
The Kangra people eat more rice . 
Cultural Diversity The Himachal has a diversity of religions , and religious customs . 
Lord Vishnu commanded Brahma to create the universe . 
One of them says that after god created the universe , He created two mounds of soil and put them aside . 
After a while the mounds changed themselves into man and woman . 
Feeling insulted at this , god decided not to immortalise such a rude species . 
Several years later terrible famine befell the country . 
When the famine was over Sumitra approached the sun and the moon for her loan with interest , but they began to dither . 
When people on the earth give away food grains as alms to the poor , the bag gets refilled and the eclipse is lifted . 
The stories about the sun and the moon thus , are a mixture of historical facts and popular fantasy . 
The Birds and the Trees In the primordial period , it is said , all trees were gods . 
Indra snipped off their wings and made them static . 
Indra is especially invited at the beginning of all auspicious ceremonies and rituals . 
But as soon as the cow was untied , she flew away into the sky . 
The king tried to stop her with his arrows but could not . 
Sumiti 's son was Dhruva . 
She poisoned the king 's ears against them , and finally got them banished into the forest . 
When Dhruva grew up , he wanted to meet his father . 
He asked his mother 's permission and went to his father 's royal court . 
The river has been known by this name since the Vedic times . 
Her friend Chitralekha painted for her the portraits of all the young princes in India . 
The place was so beautiful and quiet , that the Lord chose to stay there for eleven thousand years with his wife . 
This enraged the Goddess who put a curse on them and said that they would lose heavily in gambling . 
They built all through the day , but each night the demons would come and destroy their hard work . 
The goddess transformed herself into a beautiful woman and went and sat near the demons with a sorrowful face . 
The demons asked her what made her so unhappy and proposed that she should marry their king . 
The goddess then said that she 'd marry whosoever would defeat her in battle . 
There was a long battle and all the demons except their king were killed . 
He decided to dig them all out and use the money for works of public utility . 
Your local Social Services office will be able to put you in touch with voluntary groups in your area . 
If you want more information about Social Services please contact your local office . 
Addresses and phone numbers are over the page . 
How to get help in looking after someone 
A Carers guide to a carers assessment 
Your local council Social Services Department may b able to help to make things easier for you . 
They can also provide services for you . 
The help you are giving at the moment 
The services your council may provide . 
The way this is done is called an '' assessment '' 
If you care for an adult you can have a carers assessment to discuss the help that you need . 
Do you get enough sleep ? 
Is your health affected in other ways ? 
Are you able to get out and about ? 
Do you get any time for yourself ? 
Are you worried you may have to give up work ? 
Local or national support organizations you could contact 
Other help you could get 
What to do if you wish to complain 
Other useful contacts for carers 
Contact a Family 
Your local social services department will tell you about other local organizations . 
The Patient 's Charter and Maternity Services 
The Patient 's Charter applies to all parts of the National Health Service , including maternity services . 
This leaflet tells you how rights and standards of service set out in the Charter apply to maternity care . 
It also explains special standards for maternity services . 
You should be told the name of the midwife who will be responsible for your midwiferycare . 
Your Maternity Records 
You have a right to be given information on local maternity services . 
You should be given time to consider options before you make your choices . 
Your GP , who will be aware of your pregnancy , and your midwife can offer you advice on any of these subjects . 
Taking care of yourself while you are pregnant 
Your midwife or doctor should give advice on how you can best look after yourself and your baby while you are pregnant . 
Your midwife or doctor should give you information to help you decide how you will feed your baby . 
Breastfeeding is generally the healthiest option for you and your baby . 
Relatives and friends should be able to visit you at all reasonable time as long as this does not disturb others . 
Access to services 
You should be able to use hospital and community services , whatever your special needs are . 
For example , you should be able to get around hospital buildings easily with a pushchair or in a wheelchair . 
The telephone number and address of your local Community Health Council is listed in the telephone directory . 
How You Can Help 
Cancelling appointments that you can not keep so someone else can be fitted in 
Telling your doctor or hospital if you change your name or move address , it will make it easier for them to contact you 
Giving back equipment when you are well again so that it can be used for other patients 
Filling in and always carrying an organ donor card and telling your relatives your wishes 
If You Need More Information or Want to Make A Suggestion 
If you have comments or suggestions about the services you receive give them to the person who is providing your care . 
You can get their address from your district health authority . 
You can also give your comments or suggestions to your district health authority . 
The address is in the Yellow Pages . 
Knowing about Meningitis and Septicemia 
Knowing the symptoms of meningitis could mean the difference between life and death . 
The most common type of meningitis in children under four used to be Hib . 
Immunisation against Hib infection is now possible . 
If you do not remember your child being immunised , and he or she is under four , you should contact your doctor . 
Now , the meningococcal germ is the most common cause of meningitis and septicemia in all age groups . 
Both forms can be very serious and must be treated immediately . 
If the illness is diagnosed early and treated quickly , most people recover completely . 
But in some cases the infection can kill or lead to a permanent disability such as deafness or brain-damage brain damage . 
What are the symptoms of meningitis and septicemia ? 
Recognising the symptoms could mean the difference between life and death . 
Meningitis is not easy to identify at first because the symptoms are similar to those of ' flu . 
But meningitis develops quickly , sometimes in just in few hours , and the patient will soon become seriously ill . 
The symptoms may not all appear at the same time , and they may be different in young babies , children and adults . 
Babies May have a staring expression and a fever . 
They may refuse feeds or they may vomit . 
They may be distressed and make a shrill or moaning cry when you pick them up . 
Babies with meningitis can be very difficult to wake up . 
There may also be a rash of red or purple spots or bruises anywhere on body . 
Older children , young people and adults often have a fever , pains in their back or joints , and vomiting . 
These drugs are not addictive and are not known to cause damaging physical effects on the body . 
Experiences will vary from visions of joy and beauty to waking nightmares . 
Perceptions of the world will appear distorted . 
These drugs are commonly found in many medicine cabinets . 
Young people may experiment with them and some types may even be sold on the streets . 
Athletes claim this helps them to train harder and recover more quickly from injury . 
Often the drugs are injected using shared equipment with the attendant risks of infection ; 
In young people , use of these drugs can restrict growth ; 
England 's health today 
Times have changed . 
The number of deaths from tuberculosis has been reduced dramatically and deaths form illness such as whooping cough or measles are very rare . 
The great social developments of the last hundred years have played an important part bringing this about . 
Successful immunisation programs have also played an important part in our fight against disease , as the diagrams here show . 
As a result of all these changes most of us now enjoy a better quality of life than ever before . 
However , there is still a lot we can do to improve our lives . 
Although we have said goodbye to many of those threats to our health , we still have to guard against their return . 
We also have to be aware that different diseases today pose new dangers . 
As we learn more about them and how they can be avoided , so we can take action to protect ourselves and others . 
By most standards our health is already getting better . 
These improvements are welcome , but there is still more that needs to be done . 
Further progress could be made by making simple changes in the way we live . 
A strategy for action . 
The question is how and where do we begin ? 
Our first aim must be to get our priorities right . 
If we don ` t , we won ` t achieve the success we want . 
Concentrate on the major health problems . 
Focus on promoting good health and preventing disease as much as on care and treatment . 
It is in these areas where national targets are being set . 
Coronary heart disease and stroke ; 
Mental illness ; 
are major causes of serious illness or early death ; 
offer scope for effective action . 
The caps in the Kullu , Sirmaur , Kinnaur and Lahaul regions are also similarly embroidered . 
The tribal folk use these fabrics mostly . 
Presenting the bride and the groom with gold embroidered slippers at the time of a wedding signifies good taste . 
To the common folk watching plays is part of a religious ritual . 
Nowadays people also use kerosene oil lanterns and petromax lamps frequently . 
The folk artists usually belong to the lower middle classes , and castes like Sanhai , Sehsi , cobblers , weavers and Jheers . 
After the deity , Ganesha , has been worshipped , ballads depicting incidents from the scriptures and local history , are sung . 
The chief devotee , Chela , of Shiva dances in a trance and answers questions that are put to him . 
Going to these shrines prior to entering the new house is supposed to bring great good luck to a newly married couple . 
During local festivals like Chaitol and Bishu also , community dancing can often be seen . 
The Nagas Kayang is a dance which copies the movement of a snake . 
This depicts scenes from life in the village as also the forest . 
At places the Ghure has to deposit a small fee at the temple of the deity , for using the Chamar . 
may join the ranks of the dancers ' in this , and dance together . 
The women wear heavy armlets , and silver and gold ornaments called Tunki and Chanki around their necks . 
Each line ends with Hoo Hoo sounds . 
The Gi dance is performed to an intricate beat of three divisions . 
Of these Lahadi is a popular one . 
The first two or three dancers sing the song and the rest repeat the lines . 
This dance places a lot of importance on physical movement . 
Syllables like Oo , Aa , form the ' Tek ' or the note which is prolonged at the end of the line . 
These syllables help the singers establish a certain resonance and a definite rhythmic pattern . 
It could not possibly do so because the mechanism of heredity was not yet known . 
Biologists have given both the sex cells , the egg and sperm , a common neutral name , gamete . 
Fertilisation then is the fusion of two gametes , one from each parent , into a single cell called zygote . 
It is the zygote that grows during gestation into embryo , foetus and a new born infant . 
Such growth occurs by continued proliferation of a single cell into myriad others . 
For the most part the new cells formed at each division grow to the size of the parent cells before they in turn divide . 
But cloning of frogs is not the same thing as cloning of higher animals like dairy cows or human beings . 
Contrary to what one might expect , the frog egg is huge compared to the microscopic human ovum . 
The reason is obvious . 
The frog egg is like a chicken egg in that it must carry all the nutrient to support the complete development of the embryo . 
The size of human ova , therefore , is incredibly small considering the size of the offspring . 
It was a case of pure science fantasy masquerading as a scientific fact . 
Since cloning of higher animals is still not possible , all that can be done is to control their genotypic variation by other means . 
Genotypic variation is most difficult to control in organisms that reproduce sexually by the fertilisation of the female egg by the male sperm . 
If they happen to hit ' right ' ideas on which to build their experimental or theoretical work , they spark a breakthrough . 
Having seen it , he proceeded to demonstrate it by designing appropriate breeding experiments to verify the bold hypothesis he had made . 
These two laws of Mendel are the basis of modern genetics . 
Consider , for the sake of definiteness , Mendel 's experiment with tall and short pea plants already cited . 
Let us call the variant or allele that produces tallness Y and the allele for shortness y . 
Although the phenotype of the genotypes YY and Yy is the same , genetically they are quite distinct . 
A case in point is the gene that determines the coat color of guinea pigs . 
It has two alleles which we may denote by the symbols Y and y . 
The homozygotes YY have coat color white , while homozygotes yy are yellow . 
But there are now three distinct phenotypeswhite , cream and yellow instead of only two when Y completely dominates its recessive allele y . 
However , the segregation of R genes will occur quite independently of the segregation of Y genes considered earlier . 
Since tallness and roundness are the dominant traits , the double homozygote dominant YYRR is a tall plant with round seeds . 
Such plants produce gametes possessing one member of each allele pair . 
Consider now a mating in which the partners are similar to this Fl generation . 
The older brother is considered equal to the father . 
The birth of a son is a great occasion in the villages . 
It will be seen that the order of the genes is the same in both the maps . 
In short , punctuated genes serve as vital an evolutionary role as sexual reproduction . 
The latter permits an enormously greater variety of genotypes or genetical moulds than would be possible otherwise . 
But punctuated genes of higher animals and plants are not the only additional complexity . 
There are further complications due to diverse interrelationships between these levels . 
The probability of their occurrence increases . 
The law of evolution is a kind of converse of the second law of thermodynamics , equally irreversible but contrary in tendency . 
We are reminded of the two components of Empedocles ' world friendship , union , attraction ; andstrife , dispersion , repulsion . '' 
But it does not act in the same way in both . 
They are the deviants whose effect on development varies with the individual carrying them . 
In other words , a given genotype need not necessarily always give rise to a constant phenotype . 
First , there is the short segment marked ab which contains homologous alleles in both X and Y chromosomes . 
Second , they possess alleles in both sexes instead of only in the female . 
These differences may be illustrated by a few examples . 
Actually , however , they may carry the guilty gene either in the X or Y chromosome . 
In the latter event , the reverse would be true . 
Illegitimate children , or children born of a widow or an unmarried girls have no property rights . 
This custom is nearly obsolete now . 
It is , therefore , surmised that they carry modifying genes or supergenes which prevent the major gene from asserting itself . 
Both these types of cells adapted to tissue culture are mixed in a laboratory dish and allowed to remain in contact for several hours . 
Heredity was merely a consequence of the passage of ' blood ` the blended blood of both parentsto the progeny . 
We now know better . 
For it is not blood that passes from parent to progeny but packets of genes wrapped in chromosomes . 
It is so huge that many of these possible combinations like the possible genotypes have not even existed on earth . 
The methods of prophylactic immunisation they devised simply involve imitating natural infection in a controlled manner . 
The Gaddis perform the marriage-ceremony marriage ceremony twice . 
In case of a divorce the woman forfeits all rights to the husband 's property . 
His head must point to the north and as soon as death occurs , conch shells are blown . 
This lamp symbolises the dead man . 
They , therefore , suggest that we should exercise abundant caution very like what lawyers do in law suits . 
As a silent weapon in biological warfare , newly created pathogenic bugs may be cheaper to use and easier to exploit . 
doubted scientific benefits that the techniques will bring will have to be measured against the moral and ethical problems that follow in their wake . 
For these and other reasons , a number of scientists themselves called for certain restrictions on certain types of genetic experiments . 
These bacteria proliferate synthesising the human protein alpha interferon along with thousands of their own . 
When bacterial cells reach maximum concentration , they are killed and discharged from the fermentation tanks for concentration by centrifugation . 
For we are no longer limited to the set of natural interferons . 
We can now break up interferon genes and splice the pieces to make new genes to tailor interferon molecules to particular effects . 
This is a truth which still fills us with astonishment . '' 
They have come a long way , these replicators . 
Children arising from unions not sanctioned by the state were to be considered illegitimate . 
Breeding mothers were to be between 20 and 40 and impregnating fathers between 25 and 55 . 
Outside these ages , intercourse was permissible but abortion or infanticide was compulsory if it led to pregnancy . 
Insanity is a case in point . 
For , the less its frequency in the original population the more difficult its elimination by sterilisation or selection . 
Within the area reached by direct ionising radiation , great amounts of radioactivity are induced . 
The dose of radiation received by an individual depends on his distance from the center of the explosion . 
Most individuals who are near enough to receive a total radiation of about 450 roentgens do not survive . 
If an old man dies , till the Lama arrives at the house , no one may touch the dead body . 
But enzymes and other proteins can be purified and will carry on their characteristic activities in a glass bottle . 
It is only the crystalline structures that are able to replicate themselves in a somewhat analogous way . 
Consider first the cell structure . 
It is , no doubt , true that this central theme of metabolism has many variations , each corresponding to a particular . 
But they almost always consist in minor departures from universal metabolic sequences . 
There is evidence that even much simpler organisms such as worms have this faculty . 
Take , for instance , man whose brain confers on him alone of all terrestrial creatures the strange faculty of speech and language . 
It is the foundation on which are based more and more sophisticated usages of language in higher levels of symbolic and abstract thought . 
The heart is a strong muscular pump whose function is to pump blood to reach every part of the body from head to foot . 
Internally it consists of four chambers , two above and two below . 
The upper chamber is the atrium and the lower the ventricle . 
It has a thin inner lining which is in contact with blood and is called endocardium . 
There are valves between the chambers which open and close to regulate the flow of blood only in one direction . 
Veins , small and big , bring blue or impure blood back to the heart for purification . 
The liver processes nutrients and together with kidneys purifies the blood . 
There are two phases in the action of the heart . 
The first is contraction or systole when blood is pumped out . 
The second is a very brief period of rest or relaxation diastole . 
There is a pulse for each beat of the heart which is a combination of one systole and diastole . 
The quantity of blood pumped during each heart beat is about 70 ml . 
The heart will beat faster than normal when you get very excited or frightened or while exercising very strenuously . 
The Circulation Blood goes out from the heart through the arteries and returns to it through the veins . 
Blood circulates through the network of arteries and veins . 
Air is pumped into the cuff using the rubber ball . 
This is the systolic pressure . 
It is the pressure when the heart is contracting or is in the pumping phase . 
A second reading will be taken by releasing more air till the sound disappears . 
This is called diastolic pressure or pressure when the heart is relaxing . 
Normal blood pressure in adults is not more than 140 systolic and 90 diastolic . 
Till recently these changes were considered to be the effect of degeneracy of various body functions due to aging . 
Newer tests are cardiovascular ultrasound , angioscopy , doppler coronary flow . 
This trend is already apparent in India . 
alent in about three children per 1COMMA000 , between five and 15 years of age . 
High Blood Pressure High blood pressure produces a four times greater risk of heart attack . 
As this condition may be completely asymptomatic , it is called a silent killer . 
The only way to find out whether one has high blood pressure is by having the pressure measured . 
The higher the level of cholesterol in the blood , the higher the risk of heart attack . 
Diet influences serum cholesterol levels to a large extent . 
A family history of heart attacks or high blood pressure increases the risk . 
Angina or chest pain is the commonest symptom . 
This is essentially a cry of the heart for blood . 
It usually occurs during physical exertion , after emotional upset or after a heavy meal . 
Relief comes with rest or by a tablet under the tongue . 
An anginal attack is not a heart attack . 
The heart muscle recovers from the temporary oxygen shortage before damage to it occurs . 
People who feel angina pain should consult a doctor . 
Sometimes angina may occur at rest or during sleep . 
This is a more serious condition . 
This means that a portion of the heart muscle actually dies due to sudden but prolonged oxygen shortage . 
Factors decreasing the chance are low serum cholesterol levels , aspirin , dietary factors , such as , poly unsaturated fats and regular exercise . 
Heart Beat Disturbances Whenever the heart muscle is impaired by an oxygen shortage , its electrical system may be upset . 
These arrhythmias can be serious . 
Immediate treatment is rest and requisitioning the services of a physician as soon as possible . 
When the crop is ready for harvesting , a black goat is led around the fields and sacrificed . 
The meat of the goat is then distributed in the village as a holy ' prasad ' of the gods . 
At the time of harvesting , feasts are offered to the daitits especially to Baba . 
The Bunyan tree is worshipped on the day of the Vata Savitri fast . 
The Pomogrenate tree is worshipped at the time of a wedding . 
Friendships are also formed beneath this tree by formally appointing the tree as the witness . 
The guest lets himself in and finds a seat . 
In a little while the host family files in , and welcomes him . 
The relatives cook many delicacies at this time and send it for the bride and the groom . 
In Baishakhi the Sooi Jataras take place at the temple of Naina Davi . 
The village folk who come to the fair take a dip in the lake which is considered as holy as the river Ganges . 
If they did not keep this engagement they would be bound to return into banishment for a like number of years . 
There were eighteen akshauhim . 
Each party tried to gain Vasudeva as ally , whereupon he offered either himself or his brother Balabhadra together with an army . 
But the children of Pandu preferred him . 
They were five menYudhishthira , their leader , Arjuna , the bravest of them , Sahadeva , Bhimasena , and Nakula . 
They had seven akshauhim , whilst their enemies were much stronger . 
But now they conquered ; all those hosts were destroyed , and none remained except the five brothers . 
Thereafter Vasudeva returned to his residence and died , together with his family , who were called Yadava . 
Also the five brothers died before the year had reached its end , at the end of those wars . 
The Rishi , annoyed at thus being jeered at , said the thing in his belly would cause . 
Vasudeva who knew that the curse would come true got the pan filed and thrown in a river . 
All these orders and divisions are necessary for the preparation for battle , for pitching camp and breaking up camp . 
An akihavhim has 21COMMA870 chariots , 21COMMA870 elephants , 65COMMA610 riders , 109COMMA350 footmen . 
The number of those who ride on horses is 87COMMA480 . 
This is an explanation of the akshauhini , and of its single parts . 
His era is used in Mathura and the country of Kanoj . 
Those who use the era of Vikramaditya live in the southern and part of India . 
The epoch of the era of Saka or Sakakala falls 135 years later than that of Vikramaditya . 
He interdicted the Hindus from considering and representing themselves as anything but Sakas . 
They honor the conqueror by adding Sri to his name , so as to say Sri Vikramaditya . 
The remainder is the year of the Valabha era . 
The Hindus pronounce the d of this word something between a d and an r . 
If the word in this garb wanders back to the Hindus , they will not recognise it ... 
The Hindus call the year in which a month is repeated in the common language malamasa . 
Mala means the dirt that clings to the hand . 
However , in the literature the leap month is called adhimasa . 
The sum represents the savanahargana , i . 
In the one place you multiply it by 5311 , i . 
This is the traditional view of the Hindus ... 
AH the stars are called tarn , which word is derived from tarana , i . 
The planets enter into them and leave them again , and wander to and fro through their northern and southern latitudes . 
However , the Arabs are illiterate people , who can neither write nor reckon . 
They only rely upon numbers and eyesight . 
They call the degrees of a star 's distance from the sun which are thought necessary for its heliacal rising kalamsaka . 
Brahmagupta ought to have given this classification in his emendation of the Khandakhadyaka , but he has not done so . 
Every day they brought there a jug of Ganges water and a . 
Somanath would cure persons of every inveterate illness and heal every desperate and incurable disease . 
Thus the moon was perpetually occupied in serving the idol and bathing it . 
The fortress which contained the idol and its treasures was not ancient , but was built only about a hundred years ago ... 
Hereon they have based their compulations in the astronomical handbooks and other works . 
Therefore the lunar eclipse will never revolve from the west , nor the solar eclipse from the east . '' 
This division is represented by the following Table ... 
It would be a lengthy affair if we were to explain the meanings of the single names and their prognostics . 
He is not allowed to marry a woman above twelve years of age . 
On the Shivaratri day many fairs take place . 
These gods and two goddesses enter the city a day before Shivaratri with a band of people playing on various musical instruments . 
The Fairs in the Kullu valley follow their own patterns , some of which point at local customs and influences . 
They throw roses and perfumes on them and play with each other during the whole night . 
On the following morning they bring them to the ponds , wash them , wash themselves , and give alms . 
The women celebrate this festival when they are pregnant and desire to have children ... 
The 1 st Karttika , or new moon 's day , when the sun marches in Libra , is called Dibali . 
The times of the yogas are as propitious as those of the eclipses . 
Times which are considered as unlucky , to which no merit whatsoever is attributed , are e . 
As the Hindus call these tithis nychthemera , they also call the former half of a titht day , the latter half night . 
The rule for finding out a karana is given . 
We ask God to pardon us for every statement of ours which is not true . 
We ask Him to help us that we may adhere to that which yields Him satisfaction . 
They also believed in the dogma of the ' creation ' of the Quran . 
Its doctrines were influenced by the Greek philosophy , and evoked strong controversies and produced much polemical literature . 
Author of a general work on the history of religions , including , some account of Hinduism and Buddhism . 
Sachau , therefore suggests that the name of the author was probably taken to indicate the title of his book too . 
He therefore wrote it as Patanjali , as written in Sanskrit generally . 
Patanjali was the author of Yugdsutra which is assigned to the 4th century A . 
It may be noted that he calls it a part of the Bharata , and does not mention the title Mahabharata . 
A famous poet in the court of Sultan Mahmud and Mas ` ud . 
He died in 1039 . 
On the identification of this particular work , Sachau 's surmise has been confirmed by other writers . 
Sometime people place the deity in the middle of the fields and cook a special savoury gruel as offering . 
As they are driven back , the wheels of the chariots of the gods are brushed with thorny twigs . 
Some other features of this festival are indicative of primitive customs . 
The sheepskin is Suspended from the branches of a tree and shot at with arrows . 
The Ramlila plays begin a month prior to this , and finish on the day of the festival . 
Some unmarried girls also observe a fast on this day so that they may get a good husband . 
At night a bonfire is built outside the house and feed with jaggery , sesame , rice and radishes . 
The next day the entire village plays Holi . 
On this day people shoot arrows at a portrait of Ravana drawn on a paper . 
Kyonthali , Baghati , Kotgarhi , and Jubbali dialects are all parts of it . 
Baghati This is the dialect of the Solan area , 
In the south it stretches upto Pinjore and Nalagarh . 
These dialects have their own literary traditions and are spoken by some three lakh people . 
This is spoken in Gari Valley . 
It is a sweet and rich dialect . 
Spiti is the name of the dialect spoken in the ' Spiti valley . 
How shall I come out O Lord , 
Someone threw color at my face , My top is soaking wet now . 
Some songs describe the flirtatious relationships between the younger brother and the sister in law . 
Such songs depict the gifts and jokes they exchange , as also the tensions they generate between husband and wife . 
He fights them bravely but a stone hurled at him from the palace roof , kills him . 
It describes the wedding of the seven princes . 
Stung by her words , the youngest prince leaves his kingdom to go look for Sonekesi . 
He breaks its legs , thereby crippling the demon , and finally wings its neck which kills the demon . 
After overcoming many hurdles , the prince finally succeeds in bringing the princess Sonekesi to his kingdom . 
After a while Sonekesi tells him about her sister Roopkesi who is also quite a beauty . 
The tale of Raja Banbat is a very popular one . 
Once there was a fair in the kingdom . 
Many of the popular sayings are , therefore , connected with farming . 
The soil that produces the ' khabbal ' grass , rates first , 
Children are considered an ornament to the clan and unending source of joy . 
Posing riddles to each other is one of the fovourite pastime in the rural areas . 
The cow , true to her promise , returned to her capter , having fed her young one . 
The lion , who was the lord Indra in disguise , was very impressed by her honesty . 
The traditional pictorial patterns depicted in the Lekhnu of the Ahoi Ashtami fast are also illustrative of the popular stories connected with the ritual . 
If one hears the name or utters it , he must immediately suck sugar or a lump of jaggery to ward off bad luck . 
Sometimes birds are also portrayed . 
These are painted over with red clay . 
The color black is considered inauspicious for these and hence is not used . 
The Mandalas drawn at fasts and festivals very according to the occasion and are painted with many colors . 
A panel depicting soldiers firing guns and wrestlers wrestling and warriors dancing with daggers at the entrance of the Beejat temple at Chaupal . 
The original sketches are drawn over deer skin . 
Even to this day , the painters use these basic sketches . 
All these are employed as symbols , underscoring the mental states of the lovelorn heroine , the Nayika . 
Wall paintings arc an essential part of the art of the hilly regions . 
The peacock , the chakor birds , pigeons and parrots are birds of good omem . 
The snakes , especially white snakes , are considered holy and to kill a white snake is taboo . 
The fresh milk of a newly bought cow or buffalo must be offered to a snake . 
It is also considered sinful to see snakes copulate . 
The figures made by tattooing range from one 's name , to birds and flowers and figures of goods and goddesses . 
The loves , joys , sorrows and hopes of the people are reflected in this art form , through traditional symbolic patterns . 
After this Manasukha or Dandoo comes on the stage and introduces the theme of the play to the people and sets it going . 
Each hillside and valley in the state of Himachal has some festival or Jatara almost throughout the year . 
Two young boys carry peacock feathers at the head of the processions and dance to the beat of the drums assuming warrior like postures . 
The farmers present food grains to these troupes . 
In this the women dress up as men and act out many incidents and comic skits based on common incidents of demostic life . 
Each village has its own troupe of Ramleela actors who perform it each year for a total period of fourteen years . 
People travel long distances to come and see these . 
Prior to the Independence , the Rasa troupes also traveled from village to village . 
Kangra is well known for its wrestling matches to see which people come from far away villages . 
It is a tribal dance which is performed at the completion of the harvesting lDr . 
Nati Several forms of this dance are prevelent in the Kullu , Sirmaur , Mandi , Mahasu and Chamba areas . 
Rhythm is a main feature of this dance , and often it drives its name from the particular rhythm it employs . 
In the Rasa dance , the dancers step back and forth and sit the leap up alternatively as they dance . 
This dance form is symbolic of the unity of the peoples . 
This is a free dance which copies the gestures of animals . 
Dancing in circles , suddenly lying down on the grounds and striking various poses , are some of the chief features of these dances . 
These are danced with great fervor . 
' The Dussera season in Kullu is the time to witness these . 
The songs are sung in unison and the singer decides how and which way the notes and syllables are to be pronounced . 
Each piece has four lines and the last syllable in the first line is pronounced in a drownout fashion like . 
Laman Laman singing is popular in the Kullu valley . 
In Laman and Jhoori the ' Aa ' ending helps both lines to rhyme . 
Ram Dayal Neeraj has classed these into four groups , the stringed instruments , the wind instruments the percussions instruments and the bells . 
In the Kinnaur , Lahaul , Pangi , Sirmaur and Kullu areas , drums of different shapes and sizes are played at different festivals . 
Playing upon these , signals is the beginning of a fair or a festival . 
Among the Gaddis small round drums called ' Dafale ' are played at weddings . 
These drums are made with locally available meterial . 
The number of chromosomes present in a cell nucleus depends on the animal and plant species to which the cell belongs . 
These ' instructions ' are embodied in the genes and chromosomes in a code we have yet to decipher fully . 
The 46 chromosomes in each somatic or body cell contain the same information as was in the initial zygote . 
But during the early 1960s Professor F . 
He used differentiated cells instead of seeds ; yet amazingly these cells from carrot root when exposed to various nutritive media began to proliferate . 
Plants , however , are not animals . 
Consequently the nucleus would be doubled in size in each generation . 
And it is because of mitosis that the body cell retains intact its genetic patrimony in all the successors it breeds by division . 
Such delinking has already occurred in the current vogue of artificial insemination that has revolutionised cattle breeding . 
As is well known , artificial insemination has become virtually standard practice in dairy cattle breeding in the last 30 years or so . 
It can therefore be distributed for use far and wide . 
For , means have now been evolved to stimulate within the female multiple release of mature eggs with the aid of a pituitary hormone . 
These eggs can be to genetically less endowed foster mothers . 
Now the modern objective in breeding cattle is to increase the total yield of milk and butter fat for each lactation period . 
First , how to let people enjoy sex without reproduction . 
For some enthusiasitic geneticists have seized on the potentialities of human artificial insemination to dream of breeding supermen of the future . 
Nevertheless , an overfed genetical dwarf may grow bigger and fatter than a starved sibling with normal genes . 
These are not merely forms of address but are also looked upon as precious relationships among individuals and in the community . 
When going to a fair , a wedding or traveling together to holy places , such relationships are often established . 
A woman may choose & man as her brother , and then they are called Mitra and Mitrani . 
They come into play during the entire life of an individual and appear in the most diversified forms in his environment . 
It is thus obvious that heredity is to environment what program is to computer hardware . 
This is why the question , which is more important , heredity or environment , is a pseuodo problem . 
The inherited gene complex or genetical mould of an organism is called its genotype . 
Second , it is necessary to have a supply of individuals with similar genotypes , or with genotypes differing in known ways . 
The uniformity thus secured is never absolute as some marginal environmental diversity unavoidably creeps in . 
Some varieties of fruit trees like oranges are clones propagated for many generations by grafting buds of a single original tree . 
Such a technique was invented by John Gurdon . 
The differences among plants in the same vertical column are obviously genotypic and are due to adaptation of their ancestors to different altitudes . 
On the other hand , the differences in plants in the same horizontal row represent responses of the same genotype to different environments . 
Very often their marital connections extend upto Chamba , Punjab and Jammu . 
It is also taboo for the girl 's family members to eat or drink anything in her sasural . 
Women veil their faces in front of all elders belonging to the husband 's family . 
To approach the elders with a head bared , is considered inauspicious . 
Mendel performed his celebrated experiments by growing a variety of peas in his monastery garden nearly a century ago . 
He , therefore , concluded that when parents differ in character , the offsprings resemble one parent but not the other . 
This led him to formulate his first law of heredity called the law of segregation . 
He found that each pair of contrasting characters shows dominance and segregation independently of the others . 
This is Mendel 's second law of independent assortment . 
There is clearly no other combination possible . 
These proportions or relative frequencies are called genotype frequencies . 
Further , if the mating in the population is random , all these four possibilities are equiprobable . 
It will also be observed that while the genotypes YY and Yy are different , their corresponding phenotypes are the same . 
Each partner will give rise to four kinds of gametes , carrying YR , Yr , yR , yr , in equal numbers . 
Three possess rr and at least one Y so that they are tall plants with wrinkled seeds . 
All the genetically distinct classes would then have been separable . 
For this purpose we have considered only the simplest situations when only one or two pairs of alleles are segregating . 
But the second law applies equally when three or higher numbers of allele pairs are involved . 
As a result the dominants and recessives seem to be repelled from each other . 
Nevertheless , the linkage between genes located on the same chromosome is not absolute . 
A specific example will explain more clearly the notion of crossover . 
In general , the number of linked groups of an organism equals the number of pairs of homologous chromosomes in its cells . 
Obviously the further apart the two linked genes are in the chromosome , the more likely would they be to crossover . 
We shall deal with such genetic transformations of one strain of bacteria into another more fully in Chap . 
At this time a goat may also be sacrificed . 
At the time of childbirth , the mother is housed in a separate room . 
In fact , we can not gain anything for nothing , not even an observation as G . 
Nothing is easier than to dodge Maxwell 's paradox by affirming the prima facie impossibility of such beings . 
The RNA triplet UUU , for example , is the code for the amino acid phenylalanine corresponding to the sequence AAA in the DNA . 
All such analogies no matter how rough and remote do have a degree of similitude that illuminates an aspect of their working . 
This gives two ways of picking a black card . 
It will be seen that the figure exhibits two arrangements one for cells of females and the other for those of males . 
This is why X and Y chromosomes are called sex chromosomes . 
The remaining 22 ' regular ' chromosomes are called autosomes . 
Children born in the Gandhmool hour are considered unlucky , and are often gifted away ritually as soon as they are born . 
The idea of chromosomal map of man is not as farfetched as it may seem at first sight . 
Being linked with sex the resultant phenotypes are more easily recognised . 
Let C and c be two alleles or variants of the gene concerned with color blindness . 
This hemophilia manifests itself chiefly in failure of the blood to clot when exposed to air . 
Another time , when he took his fiancee on his lap , his thigh bone broke . '' 
The gene effect on the fragility of the bone is not the same in all individuals . 
In one country only 63 per cent of the individuals inheriting the blue sclerotic gene showed its effect as fractures of the bones . 
Finally , there is the greater part of the X chromosome which stretches from c to d alone . 
Since this portion of the human Y chromosome is very short , it must carry relatively extremely few genes . 
It is , therefore , no surprise that only two or three such geines have so far been detected . 
If so , the guilty gene could not be located in Y chromosome . 
There are many other pathological defects which are now known to arise in a similar way . 
Unfortunately , such a linkage between phenotype and genotype is riddled with many difficulties in the case of man . 
This dual existence as well as operation does not cause any serious confusion for two reasons . 
Assaying a number of clones for various enzymes , therefore , provides information whether or not they belong to the same chromosome . 
The skin color may be white , black , yellow , brown , mulatto , or copper coloured . 
But blood types are almost as numerous as the number of possible genotypes . 
The blood type of an individual may be group B with regard to one factor and group M or MN with regard to another . 
It may be R positive , Kell negative , Duffy positive , and so on with regard to yet other factors . 
The controlling genes of each system produce the characteristic antigen present in the red blood cells . 
The clumping reaction between antibodies of the mother and the red cells of her unborn child provokes anemia . 
In such cases there could be antibodies already present in sufficient strength at her very first Rh pregnancy to attack the child . 
For repeated transfusions of Rh positive blood in a negative person of either sex may eventually produce serious adverse reactions . 
When they do , the upshot is a hereditary disease to which both sexes are more or less equally prone . 
That such defective genes sometimes do occur in chromosomes is not surprising . 
The duplicate genes so produced are quite stable and durable . 
Such abnormality is confined only to sex chromosomes and one of the smallest autosomes . 
As we have seen , a normal individual will have a pair of sex chromosomesXX in the female and XY in the male . 
A comparison of these patterns with the normal combinations XY or XX will show what might be expected . 
Thus when Y is absent , the resultant individual XO is an apparent female anatomically but remains sexually immature and sterile . 
At the same time their mental and physical powers deteriorate leading inexorably to death before or during adolescence . 
It is not difficult to see why most lethal mutants are recessive . 
A dominant mutation expresses itself in the first generation that receives it . 
Similar metabolic pathways in higher organisms have been shown to be controlled by specific genes . 
This disease , like phenylketonuria , is inherited as a recessive . 
For individuals with this mutation , milk is a toxic substance because glactose accumulates in tissues when lactose is ingested . 
But the effect of other mutations like PKU seem more difficult to control . 
At first sight , it may seem as simple to deal with PKU as with the incapacity to digest milk . 
All we need do is to feed the infant from birth a diet which has a minimal amount of phenylalanine . 
There are available digests of milk protein from which most of phenylalanine is chemically removed . 
But treated cases do not seem to escape damage of one sort or another . 
There is now reason to believe that the level of phenylalanine which can be tolerated in the blood is highly critical . 
What is the right critical level for any individual is hard to determine . 
If one 's meat is another 's poison , it is the quantities of phenylalanine that a PKU baby can tolerate . 
As always , it will take years before Hippocratic tradition gives way to logic and sanity . 
Some are much bigger or more useful to man than others . 
This basic feature of heredity likeness tinged with fringe variation has been used for breeding before the dawn of history . 
For deliberate breeding must have started with the very dawn of agriculture and animal husbandry . 
A case in point is the production of a new variety of rabbit called Rex . 
In this case the first generation hybrids are neither Rex nor white but some of the second generation combine both characters . 
This method has been used very extensively in wheat breeding . 
Thus , Saunders in Alberta used it to combine the frost resistance of a Russian wheat with the high yield of an English one . 
Cuttings from that tree are ripening their fruit in New Zealand and Australia even today . 
An experienced breeder will see points in a cow or a rose which a purely theoretical geneticist would miss completely . 
In man , marriages of brothers and sisters as practised in some royal families of Egypt and Peru allegedly led to no undesirable results . 
The evidence seemed to be highly equivocal and great confusion of ideas existed on the subject of inbreeding . 
It consists in selecting several superior looking varieties from a large number of genetically different land varieties . 
Corn is a case in point . 
All the unreduced cells in the flower would thus be tetraploid . 
Let us assume for the sake of simplicity that only one genotype yy is discriminated against . 
There seems no way out of the medical dilemma of our time to which we have already alluded in Chap . 
Mathematical theory of organic evolution has thus had the imprimatur of experimental confirmation . 
The natural selection is no longer deemed to be relentless war . 
It is , rather , opportunistic ; life is promoted now by struggle and now by mutual help . '' 
A community may even oscillate between tender parental care and cannibalism of its offsprings according to requirements . 
The means by which an automatic balance between births and deaths is achieved vary from one species to another . 
Infection then became the homeostatic mechanism to keep a balance btween human births and deaths . 
As late as the thirties genetics was still a terra incognita . 
For example , birds that need to rest on water in order to find their food stretch their feet when they wish to swim . 
The skin becomes accustomed to being stretched and forms the web between the toes . 
This animal , seeking to browse higher and higher on the leaves of trees on which it feeds stretches its neck . 
These naive examples constitute some of the evidence on which Lamarck rested his theory . 
The wild canary was chosen some 300 years ago as a cage bird on account of its plumage alone . 
The seeds germinate , but the seedlings do not begin to grow till spring . 
If the wheat is not sown till spring , it gets a late start , and does not give a good crop . 
Even so the yields remained subnormal . 
By resort to this vernalisation technique it became possible to grow wheat hundreds of miles further north than was possible before . 
Lysenko was credited with this discovery although it was an ancient practice and had been used elsewhere since the nineteenth century . 
As Lysenko 's influence increased , he undertook to modify and redefine all biological theory . 
Some of his innovations were mere exercises in verbalism such as his doctrine of the phasic development of plants . 
Altering one stage in development by environmental means would cause successive stages to be changed . 
Such changes , he claimed , would be inherited . 
This led him to deny the existence of genes and dismiss orthodox genetics as an aberration of capitalist science . 
Lysenko also claimed that he could produce new types of development cycles in plants by regulating the quality of their nutrients . 
vatism ' of the plant and thus render it more sensitive to environmental changes . 
He shattered this conservatism by using adverse environmental conditions , hybridisation and grafting . 
The advent of new techniques made it possible to bring about mutations in vitro by deliberate design instead of blind chance . 
The in vitro process now enables us , for the first time , to join DNA molecules of unrelated organisms . 
This is done by a process called transformation . 
As a result genetic engineering research is now being freed from some of the more inhibiting restraints imposed by the guidelines . 
It is likely that its subtleties will always remain beyond our ken . 
The more we probe the molecular basis of life the deeper grows its mystery . 
After the cremation , people bathe and come back to the deceased 's house . 
On the third day , the bones and ashes are immersed in a holy place like Haridwar , Rivalsar or Mansarovar . 
For ten days the house observes a mourning period . 
It has now been established that the gene that produces it is located on the X chromosome . 
Further the gene has been isolated or cloned and a DNA clone of factor VIII produced . 
Genetech , the San Francisco based biotechnology company , now hopes to launch its industrial production within the next few years . 
By the end of the century a large variety of passenger vehicle or host vector systems will be developed for industrial use . 
The same is true of genetic and environmental diseases . 
Some influences of both types may be hard to reverse , others may be easy . 
Some may be usually hard to reverse but easy if the right agent is applied . 
The important point is that there is no general reason for expecting genetic influence to be any more irreversible than environmental ones . '' 
The first to provide philosophic support to these elitist practices of succession by heredity was Plato . 
His most important dialogue , the Republic , was broadly concerned with the construction of an ideal commonwealth . 
The whole village is then feasted . 
In Kinnaur when someone dies , all the villagers collect at his house at night . 
Two people then carry the body to the cremation grounds on a plank . 
It is believed that if the legs are straight , an evil spirit might enter the body . 
He then seats himself at the head and explains to the spirit how it must leave the dead body . 
It affected to a greater and lesser degree even the most progressive thinkers in the social and historic sciences . 
There is little doubt that unlimited nuclear testing is a serious genetic hazard to future unborn generations . 
Throughout the ages he has been exposed to what is called natural background radiation . 
It includes radiation from cosmic as well as terrestrial sources . 
Such radiation has probably played a major role in the evolution of life by providing mutations upon which natural selection has acted . 
Since the discovery of radioactivity , man has substantially added to his natural radiation burden . 
The time horizon for attaining this level , however , is different for different types of genes . 
Nevertheless , the expectation is clearly contrary to the most obvious facts of life . 
The English logician , A . 
The real marvel is rather how this colossal information is locked in tiny DNA macro molecules , the genes . 
An equal marvel at first sight is nature 's departure from her normal practice of prodigal provision . 
There is perhaps a very good reason for nature 's parsimony in making genetic codes . 
But in the case of animals higher up the evolutionary scale , neonatal experience plays an important role in determining their behaviourial pattern . 
This is the case even with some of the species of invertebrates such as the octopus . 
Nurture they thought is important . 
As he has remarked , '' Human mind did not arise from some kind of rudimentary minds of molecules and atoms . 
Evolution is not simply unpacking of what was there in a hidden state from the beginning . 
The Lama recites prayers , the relatives cry and conch shells are blown . 
Two men , one with a couch shell and another with a flag , follow the funeral procession . 
Sometimes an umbrella is held over the bier . 
In addition it consists of vitamins and enzymes , etc . 
The right and left ventricles contract simultaneously to pump blood respectively to the lungs and to all parts of the body . 
It is considered that this is a process which begins in childhood . 
When this happens the heart will have to exert itself more than normal to pump blood to reach the extremities of the body . 
Sometimes a blood clot may completely block the flow of blood with severe consequences , i . 
The more mature the clinician , the more expert will be his physical examination . 
Laboratory Tests The doctor will decide as to which of the more elaborate tests are really necessary , considering the expense and labor involved . 
Certain other tests may be necessary for special cases . 
These are the only types of heart disease which will be dealt with in the ensuing pages . 
A heart attack occurs if an artery becomes blocked and prevents blood from nourishing the heart muscle . 
Beedis contain more tobacco than cigarettes and are therefore more harmful . 
In Malana the god Jamlu , and the god Mahasu in Dodra Kwar , decide the cases through their devotees . 
People who defy the caste laws are ostracised . 
After this he offers a gift to the god . 
Killing a cow is considered the biggest crime and sin . 
Age and Sex The chance of heart disease increases with age in both sexes and in women after the change of life . 
Women taking the ' pill ' , and those who also smoke , are at greater risk . 
People who are more than 20 per cent overweight have three times the risk of those slightly underweight . 
People who are overweight tend to have higher blood pressures , higher cholesterol levels and diabetes . 
It is now believed that regular exercise strengthens the heart and improves the circulation . 
It also helps to control high cholesterol , body weight , stress and blood pressure . 
Stress and Behaviour Patterns Type A behavior may be an important factor in heart attacks . 
Prolonged anxiety and depression may also increase the risk of heart disease , as well as other ailments . 
Risk assessment tends to overlook people with numerous borderline abnormalities . 
Such people may be at a higher risk of CHD than is indicated by this simple risk chart . 
.45 1 and 2 from which you can know your risk points for a heart attack . 
You may enjoy calculating your own risk from the charts . 
Symptoms of Heart Attack Atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries may develop slowly to a point where complications occur without warning . 
Sudden death may occur and advanced diseases of the coronary arteries are the commonest cause of sudden death with or without warning symptoms . 
The body has a complex system by which the BP is regulated and controlled . 
The kidneys , suprarenals , brain and nervous system play a major role in regulating BP . 
These customs are undergoing changes now . 
The village moneylender usually takes advantage of the illiteracy of the villagers by charging them exorbitant interst rates . 
The system of opening banks in villages by the government has improved the situation somewhat . 
People cast votes to choose the members of this assembly . 
Fallow land around the village is called Shamlat . 
If , the arrow hits the target , the player jumps up and names one of the five Pandava brothers . 
Meditation This is also a useful adjunct to exercise and yoga . 
The Hindus , like other people , boast of this enormous range of their language , whilst in reality it is defect . 
This is also one of the reasons why a word has sometimes one meaning and sometimes another . 
On the contrary , all their fanaticism is directed against those who do not belong to them against all foreigners . 
The Hindus differ among themselves as to the definition of what is action . 
I , for my part , understand by the word a youth who is soft , i . 
Similar views are also held by the Sufi , because of the similarity of the dogma . 
The animal is an animal as distinguished from a stone by virtue of its possession of the senses . 
The former senses bring about learning and knowledge , the latter action and work . 
We shall call them the necesyaria . 
The Doom A revolt by the subject of a particularly cruel or ruthless local Rana or Raja is called ' Doom ' . 
Therefore , he who does not believe in it does not belong to them , and is not reckoned as one of them . 
However , these actions differ in the same measure as the three primary forces differ . 
In this manner it attains real knowledge and turns away from being arrayed in matter . 
Thereby action ceases , and both matter and soul become free by separating from each other . 
They make a man similar to the wild beasts and the cattle , nay , even to the demons and devils . 
Thereby the second of the three primary forces is cut away . 
On the contrary , in the world of liberation all veils are lifted , all covers taken off , and obstacles removed . 
Or if you wish , say , it is the return of the soul as a knowing being into its own nature . '' 
Now I rose , went , to him and shook him but lo ! 
And , lastly , one species is represented by man . ' '' 
Deva And this usage has been transmitted from Magian times down to the Persian language of our days . 
To them everybody belongs who opposes the religion of the Hindus and persecutes the cows . 
The latter figure is that of the Zodiacal sign of Arcitenens . 
The first force is peculiar to the Deva , or angels who live in quietness and bliss . 
The sum of the number of angels just mentioned would be 330COMMA000COMMA000 . 
He may ascend to the degree of a Rishi . 
Rishis are the sages who , though they are only human beings , excel the angels on account of their knowledge . 
Therefore , the angels learn from them , and above them there is none but Brahman . 
So the hule with all that is comprehended in it , is a bridge from above to below . 
The third class the physicians , astronomers , and other men of science . 
And within these classes there were subdivisions , distinct from each other , like the species within a genus . 
And forgetting is the necessary result of any long period of time , of a long succession of centuries and generations . 
Among the Hindus institutions of this kind abound . 
Between the latter two classes there is not very great distance . 
These guilds live near the villages and towns of the four castes , but outside them . 
They are occupied with dirty work , like the cleansing of the villages and other services . 
They ere considered as one sole class , and distinguished only by their occupations . 
Of the classes beneath the castes , the Hadi are the best spoken of , because they keep themselves . 
Next follow the Doma , who play on the lute and sing . 
The still lower classes practise as a trade killing and the inflicting of judicial punishments . 
Such is the condition of the four castes . 
It has a similar handle to the sakti , but on each side it has two swords which join at the handle . 
On his front place a third eye and make him ride on a white elephant with four tusks . 
In consequence it has happened that they have several times forgotten the Veda and lost it ... 
There is hardly a single verse free from such and similar minatory injunctions . 
As we have already mentioned , the books of the Hindus are metrical compositions like the Rajaz poems of the Arabs . 
Continuing to do so till the end , you will have read the whole text twice . 
It does not consist of the same compositions as the Rig and Yajur Vedas , but of a third kind called bhara . 
It is recited according to a melody with a nasal tone . 
This Veda is less in favor with the Hindus than the others . 
As to the Puranas , we first mention that the word means first , eternal . 
The Brahmans follow the horse , and celebrate sacrifices to the fire in those places where the horse drops its dung . 
In this book there occur passages which , like riddles , admit of manifold interpretations . 
At the same time Vyasa made it obligatory on him to write only that which he understood . 
And when the king disapproved of her doing so , she gave him an angry reply , and used coarse language towards him . 
Thereupon the sage went off to Mahadeva devoutly . 
The god also promised to assist him in further development of this science . 
Then the sage returned to the king and taught it to him . 
The latter name Names of laghu and guru shows that a complete amsaka is equal to two guru or their equivalent . 
These names they have invented simply to facilitate the versification of their metrical books . 
For this purpose they have invented so many names that one may fit into the metre if others will not . 
Sometimes they add a fifth pada in the middle of the verse . 
This kind is called Arya . 
In the metre of 5 padas , the fifth pada is placed between padas 3 and 4 . 
The names of the metres differ according to the number of syllables , and also according to the verses which follow . 
For they do not like all the verses of a long poem to belong to one and the same metre . 
They use many metres in the same poem , in order that it should appear like an embroidered piece of silk . 
( The difference between the Arab and Hindu method of the rotation of a pada is given . 
What we have of sciences is nothing but the scanty remains of bygone better times . 
Their belief about the cyclical revolutions of tunes is nothing very special , but is simply in accordance with the results . 
The book known among Muslims as Sindhind is called by them Siddkanta , i . 
This is the frontier of India from the north . 
They are thus called because they commit their robberies on sea in ships called bira . 
At all events , thus the matter stands according to popular belief . 
If he had known the truth , he might have spared himself the theory of the breaking of the egg . 
( The views of several Indian , writers Brahmagupta , Pulisa , Balabhadra and Aryabhattaare quoted , and criticised . 
About the mountain itself they have many traditions . 
Some give it the height of one yojana , others more ; some consider it as quadrangular , others as an octagon . 
We shall now lay before the reader what the Rishis teach regarding this mountain ... 
They worship Janardana , and the names ot their castes are Damin , Sushmin , Sneha , and Mandeha . 
The climate of this Dvipa never alters in cold or heat , so they are not bound to protect themselves against either . 
They have no rain , but the water bubbles up for them out of the earth and drops down from the mountains . 
This is also the case with the following dvipas ... 
They have beautiful faceo and worship Bkagavat They bring offerings to the fire ... 
The names of their castes are Kapila , Aruna , Pita , and Krishna . 
This Dvipa has two kingdoms . 
The names of their castes are Mriga , Magadha , Manasa and Mandaga . 
In the following table we simply enumerate them without following any particular principle of arrangement . 
The northern mountains are the snowy Himavant . 
In their center lies Kashmir , and they are connected with the country of the Turks . 
This mountain region becomes colder and colder till the end of the inhabitable world and Mount Meru . 
Of course , these mountains differ very much in cold and heat . 
The river Biyaha flows east of Multan , and joins afterwards the Biyatta and Candaraha . 
In a similar manner they also differ among themselves regarding . 
He wore Turkish dress , a short tunic open in front , a high hat , boots and arms . 
But for this , we should communicate to the reader the traditions which we have received from some people among them . 
Besides , Lagaturman had bad manners and a worse behavior , on account of which people complained of him greatly to the Vazir . 
This Hindu Shahiya dynasty is , now extinct , and of the whole house there is no longer the slightest remnant in existence . 
In acting thus , I do not speculate on the impression which this will make on you . 
I have been conquered by you , and therefore I do not wish that another man should conquer you . '' 
Therefore each planet makes within a kalpa certain number of complete revolutions or cycles . 
Is their origin due to the translation of Alfazari and Ya ` kub ? 
In the one place you multiply it by 55COMMA739 , i . 
Also , the reverse of these two eventualities may take place . 
We shall communicate to the reader whatever of these rules we happened to learn by the study of their calendars or astronomical handbooks . 
These , however , because not wanted , are disregarded . 
The quotient represents signs of the ecliptic . 
The remainder of this division is multiplied by 30 , and the product divided by the same divisor . 
The quotient represents degrees . 
The remainder of this division is multiplied by 60 , and is divided by the same divisor . 
The quotient represents minutes . 
Therefore , we refrain from reproducing them , as this would detain us too long and be of no use . 
Some of these things have already been mentioned in the preceding chapters ... 
Thus , e . 
Therefore , the times in which Saturn and the moon traverse the same space are different , whilst their motions are equal . 
Besides , they reckon also the Falling Eagle among the stations , so as to get 28 . 
He is said to look like a Gaddi with a red cap on his head and a hookah in his hands . 
The Gaddis wear a red muffler to ward off the evil eye . 
The fire absorbs the water and keeps it from overflowing . 
Then follows the story of Prajapati 's curse upon moon and its affliction with leprosy . 
Prajapati said that it could be done by erecting the shape of the linga of Mahadeva as an object of the moon 's worship . 
The image was destroyed by the Prince Mahmud may God be merciful to him ! 
For he wrote the brahmasiddlumla when he was only thirty years of age . 
If this indeed is his excuse , we accept it , and herewith drop the matter ... 
Trading is permitted to him only in case of dire necessity , when he has no other means of sustenance . 
The Brahmans are not , like the other castes , bound to pay taxes and to perform services to the kings . 
The blue color is impure for him , so that if it touches his body , he is obliged to wash himself . 
Lastly , he must always beat the drum before the fire , and recite for it the prescribed holy texts . 
He dwells outside civilisation , and leads the same life again which he led in the first period . 
If he passes beyond them he commits a sin . 
If the eating is finished , the spot is washed and plastered to become clean again . 
He rules the people and defends them , for he is created for this task . 
He girds himself with a single cord of the threefold yajnopavita , and a single other cord of cotton . 
This happens after he has finished the twelfth year of his life . 
The Kine rode to him and found him on the banks of the Ganges , hanging on something with his head downwards . 
The King bent his bow , shot at him , and pierced his bowels . 
All these things originate in the difference of the classes or castes , one set of people treating the others as fools . 
The Brahmans walk behind her and perform sacrifices to the fire where she castes dung . 
In some parts there are periodically returning physical disasters ; in others they are entirely unknown . 
All these things induce civilised people carefully to select the places where they want to build towns . 
That which makes people do these things is usage and custom . 
However , religious commands are much more powerful , and influence much more the nature of man than usages and customs . 
The sin which a man commits thereby corresponds to the amount by which the percentages have increased the capital stock . 
Other Hindus told me that the Brahmans used to suffer from the eating of cows ' meat . 
I , for my part , am uncertain , and hesitate in the question of the origin of this custom between two different views . 
Whereupon Brahman entrusted them exclusively . 
The law of theft directs that the punishment of the thief should be in accordance with the value of the stolen object . 
An adulteress is driven out of the house of the husband and Punishment of an adulteress banished . 
And how should that be possible ? 
Afterwards she has no more income from the house of her father . 
whether the deceased has left any property or not . 
Likewise he must bear the just mentioned expenses for the widow in any case whatsoever . 
The collateral relations , as , e . 
If there are several claimants of the same degree of relationship , as , e . 
Among the fairs connected with local deities , the Kahika fair of the Kulu valley is an important one . 
Thereupon there appeared a legislator who ordered people to expose their dead to the wind . 
There is a point in man by which he is what he is . 
Therefore his followers , the Shamanians , throw their dead into the rivers . 
On the spot where the body has been burned they raise a monument similar to a milestone , plastered with gypsum . 
The bodies of children under three years are not burned . 
Burning oneself is forbidden to Brahmans and Kshatriyas by a special law . 
If such a twig enters into the soil , it is like a supporting column to the branch whence it has grown . 
Fasting is with the Hindus voluntary and supererogatory . 
From that moment he abstains from food . 
On the third day he eats nothing except what by chance is given him without his asking for it . 
On the fourth day he fasts . 
Then he fasts uninterruptedly during three consecutive days without breaking fast . 
If a man fasts all the days of Caitra , he obtains wealth and joy over the nobility of his children . 
If he fasts in Vaisakha , he will lord over his tribe ... 
If he fasts in Jyaishtha , he will be a favorite of the women . 
If he fasts in Ashadha , he will obtain wealth . 
If he fasts in Sravana , he obtains wisdom . 
If he fasts in Bhadrapada , he obtains wealth and valour , riches and cattle . 
If he fasts in Asvayuja ; he will always be victorious over his enemies . 
If he fasts in Kartikka , he will ... obtain his wishes . 
If he fasts in Margasirsha , he will be born in the most beautiful and fertile country . 
If he fasts in Pausa , he obtains a high reputation . 
If he fasts in Magha , he obtains innumerable wealth . 
If he fasts in Phalguna , he will be beloved . 
It is called deotthini i . 
Others add , besides , the condition that it must be the eleventh of the white half ... 
On the sixth day of Pausha is a fasting in honor of the sun . 
On the third day of Magha there is fasting for the women , not for the men . 
They perform the same in their houses during the whole day and make merry . 
During this time the household is provided with new vessels . 
On the full moon day of Sravana , they give banquets to the 15th Sravana Brahmans . 
On the 8th Asvayuja , when the moon stands in the nineteenth station , Mula , begins the sucking of the sugarcane . 
They give much alms before it and kill kids . 
They distribute alms during fifteen days in the name of the Fathers . 
On the following day they give alms , they give banquets and receive guests . 
The women 's washing with cold water is common to all the days of this month ... 
The Hindus of Multan have a festival which is called Sambapura . 
They distinguish , e . 
The times which are specially favourable to earn a heavenly '' The days called punyakala reward in them are called punyakala ... 
Those days are lucky when the planets migrate from one sign into the other , especially the sun . 
This process lasts , in the case of the sun , nearly two hours . 
( Two different methods for calculating the moment of Samkranti are mentioned . 
Further , the times of Parvan are propitious , i . 
This yoga is called watipata 
A Table showing the names and the qualities of the yogas , is also given . 
The The houses one half of them above the earth they call chatra , i . 
To these things Hindu astrologers join certain methods of the astrology of nativities , which other nations do not take into account ... 
Their theories and methods regarding aerial and cosmic phenomena are very lengthy and very subtle at the same time . 
The head of the Dragon is called rahu , the tail ketu . 
The Hindus seldom speak of the tail , they only use the head . 
In general , all ' comets which appear on heaven are also called ketu . 
( Quotation from Varahamihira 's Samhita regarding different kinds of comets , their prognostics , etc . 
It is divided into six parts , five of which deal with cosmic matters . 
It laid stress on esoteric interpretation of some religious doctrines and was characterised by some communistic tendencies . 
Hamdan Qarmat , an Iraqi peasant , was the founder of the sect , and its followers came to be called Qarmatians . 
Later they established their rule over the greater part of upper Sind . 
It contains the names of some minor smritis , such as Atri , Harita and Daksha . 
Its original objective was to explain the Veda , which it regarded as primeval and superhuman . 
They believed that perception alone was the source of proof or knowledge . 
There are two books whose titles bear the prefix Agastya . 
He died in 681 . 
The former was a Greek , , and the author of a work on astronomy , the Paulisa Siddhanta . 
Aryabhatta held that the earth was a sphere and it rotated on its axis . 
Caraka 's work has been regarded as one of the basic texts on early Indian medical science . 
The descendants of Khalid ibn Barmak the powerful and influential Wazir of Khalifa Mansur . 
An Arabic translation , from an earlier Persian translation , of a Sanskrit work . 
The work contains didactic stories meant to instruct princes in morals and polity . 
Some material of the lost Sanskrit original is available in an expanded form in the Pancatantm 30 . 
A measure of distance , equal to 4 miles . 
Sachau suggests a comparison of this portion relating to the Indian festivals with H . 
The Bodleian ms copy is a transcript of the Cambridge ms copy . 
The festival obviously corresponds with the Durga Puja festival of the present times . 
The sacrifice of a goat is also mentioned . 
The ' new moon ' , technically , does not indicate its visibility on the horizon . 
He 's been on medication ever since . 
In the morning , he 's temperamental , speaks fast and can ` t comprehend things because he can ` t concentrate . 
But once he takes his medicines he 's okay . 
It was traumatic for us at first because we didn ` t know what was wrong . 
So my wife went back to college to do a master 's in special education . 
At least we understand what 's happening now . '' 
Doctors in India have so far been in the unique position of treating ADHD in the absence of a specific drug for the problem . 
That child might just need help . 
It 's important to differentiate between a normally mischievous little one and a child with a problem . 
'' At the age of 15 months , he would hit his head against the wall . 
He 's broken a few telephones and one TV in our house . 
In which case it is the teacher who needs counselling . '' 
'' That day I really cried . 
When the teacher said that we have spoilt our child , I came home and cried and cried . 
You can ` t get my son to sit for a moment . 
The teachers don ` t understand . 
Methylphenidate is seen by many as a boon , since it 's considered highly effective in dealing with ADHD . 
But being a stimulant that 's prone to abuse and known to retard physical growth , it should be prescribed with care . 
Despite the dangers of wrong treatment , what is as worrisome is the lack of it . 
In less than a week , Farooq found himself on the wrong end of the seesaw . 
Vajpayee and Home Minister L . 
Part of the problem stemmed from the unreal hopes following Advani 's initial comment that the resolution would be taken up by Parliament . 
The Centre is hopeful of getting at least a section of the Hurriyat to the negotiating table to discuss specific political demands . 
This is the only way it can banish the feeling of alienation that pervades Kashmir today . 
Unfortunately , that may have happened . 
Nutrition is , of course , not the only value of bamboo , the strongest and most useful among grasses . 
'' Without bamboos the villagers can not survive , '' says M . 
Bamboos are also used as poles , shafts and pillars , and are commonly fashioned into fishing rods and yokes . 
And innovatively enough , hollow bamboo poles are useful for storing grain and oil and carrying water . 
The tribals also depend on the bamboo to augment their incomes . 
The tall grass is used for making baskets , weaving mats and for creating decorative items . 
And almost all scaffolding in India is made from bamboo . 
Ironically , the flowering of bamboo can be a boon to forest conservators . 
The blooming bamboos of Bastar will yield 3 , 000 to 4 COMMA000 quintals of the rare seed . 
'' Unfortunately , we lack manpower and money for as big an operation as collecting seeds , '' says R . 
Consequently , the department does not hope to gather more than 200 quintals of seeds . 
A pity , for a careful mopping operation could have helped a planned regeneration of massive swathes of bamboo . 
By Harinder Baweja and Kumar Sanjoy Singh Every story has a moral . 
But at the end of the day it was politics that triumphed . 
Other owners include former Congress ministers and MPs , a former cabinet secretary and scores of IAS officers . 
It even goes against the advice of the high court . 
I have , therefore , decided to regularise the occupants on recovery of price of the land plus penalty . 
This roughly works out to Rs 22COMMA500 per sq metre . 
Sinha had promptly shot back a reply , asking why the government should incur a revenue loss of Rs 86 crore . 
The cost of the land alone is a staggering Rs 110 crore . 
That 's another moral of the same story . 
If our liberals are so infuriatingly sanctimonious and principled , why are they such colossal funks ? 
But at least he doesn ` t shy away from his forthright views . 
So why can ` t our liberals be more like Thackeray ? 
Why must they fall back on trivial technicalities and plain illegalities to settle their aesthetic scores ? 
What happened in Mumbai last week was shameful . 
It was outrageous that Sainiks threatened retribution on the streets and created a great fear . 
Those with long memories will remember it was precisely this argument the Communists and progressives around Indira Gandhi used to justify the Emergency . 
Sometimes people also have magically potent nails driven on their entrance doors . 
Before taking on Thackeray , our liberals must first develop a spine . 
By Ruben Banerjee Temples in India are busy places . 
No , this is not renovation time at the temple . 
The simple fact is construction work at the Anantagopal temple never stops . 
Masons , carpenters and labourers jostle with worshippers round the year . 
The temple gets plastered over and over again , new brick walls are added and doors and windows dismantled and refixed ceaselessly . 
Since the temple 's present can not be any different from its past , there is work going on even now . 
A scaffolding perpetually stands around the temple , and masons are at work giving the exteriors a fresh coat of plaster . 
Elsewhere , a boundary wall is being raised with an ornamental entrance that will resemble the dome of the famous Tirupati temple . 
But it is not because of a simple flight of fancy of the temporal authorities that the Anantagopal temple continues to be built endlessly . 
No one in Chatia , therefore , expects the work to come to a halt till Jagannath 's return . 
'' It will stop only when the Lord returns , '' says Jagannath Das , another hereditary trustee . 
So work goes on relentlessly . 
The people found an alternative instead , and built a college nearby in the name of saint Haridas , the founder of the temple . 
However , no one may come out before midday . 
However , no one may come out before midday . 
These must be in odd numbers . 
It is considered auspicious to see this platter full of statues and figures early in the morning . 
This festival symbolises the well being and prosperity of the entire community . 
The walls are hung over with flower garlands . 
Afterwards they are placed within the house . 
Afterwards they are placed within the house . 
Sweets are distributed and the young ones seek the blessings of the elderly . 
People also gamble on this day with cards or with cowrie shells . 
The Khogal night is also all lit up with clay lamps like the Diwali night . 
This is a signal to begin the Khogal celebrations . 
As soon as the sound comes , people run with lighted torches towards their houses screaming Ah ! 
In the end all the torches are piled together and as the flames leap up , people dance around the bonfire . 
After they return home , the people offer pooja to their family deities includiug the local deity Baraja . 
Floors of the temples are cleansed and polished in the hope that the gods will throw good things from the heavens , upon them . 
At the end , a goat is sacrificed to please the demons . 
On a large platter , some cakes made of mixed flour are placed , and carried to the deity by four men . 
This place is marked by a tree or a shrub or a little mound . 
She is followed by two men , one carrying a lighted torch and the other , a bunch of pine branches bundled in sheepskin . 
The woman who has borne her first son leads the procession of devotees which consists of other mothers of sons . 
A month before this , the field workers go round from house to house singing , Lohadi song called ' Lohkadiyan ' . 
The people welcome the singers , and give them gifts of foodgrains . 
The houses are cleaned and the monsoon gods are welcomed by name . 
If an arrow hits home , it is taken to be a sign of the victory of gods over demons in the heaven . 
During this period , the villages turn very quiet . 
After three rounds of the temple people try to snatch the ' Doo ' which they feed to their animals . 
All the members of the family take turns in sprinkling the water . 
This gesture is said to denote the acceptance of the animal by the deity . 
It is belived that it is the deity manifest in them who does all this . 
The Pahadi language shows traces of all three Khasa , Kirata and Kinnar influences . 
The inner or south eastern part includes the areas of Sirmaur , Solan , Simla , Kulu , Churah and Pangi . 
The outer or north part contains the Bilaspur , Mandi , Himirpur , Una , Kangra and Chamba districts . 
In popularizing and getting published works of Kangri , this writer and M . 
The songs sung prior to , and after the birth of a son are called Bihaiyan . 
The birth of a son spells the continuity of the family line , and is an occasion of great joy . 
In Lahaul and Spiti people fire their guns at the eclipse in the sky and also throw stones . 
At the time of an eclipse , it is forbidden to eat , cook or have sexual intercourse . 
When the victim is presented before them they slap his face and pray for his health . 
Such songs are often sung at the time of the bride 's departure . 
O Keekar tree , who has broken your proud branches ? 
Funeral songs are also sung everywhere in Himachal . 
In Kinnaur , the Ashta Yamo songs are sung at the time of the last rites . 
Dale diya dhara ufale bajde , bauda baje tamboor loko , 
Llkhi parvane bhaicharejo bhejda , minjo deni madad loko , 
Unhagini gini marnejuan loko , jinda ni dinajanraja , 
King 's vazier Mahta , tricks him into visiting the palace for negotiations . 
If someone 's foot touches it accidentally , he or she must bow to it . 
Folk Tales People in Himachal . 
Some tales are based on animal lore . 
Some of these stories are about local patriots and warriors also . 
The Himachal sayings reflect the deep seated beliefs of the people in the area , in spheres ranging from the philosophical to the social . 
The cow is worshipped as a holy animal . 
If one can not afford to buy a cow , one has to give away a rupee and a quarter as a token payment . 
The disembodied forms of a ghostly spirit began to assume several forms in my mental eye . 
He came and sat near the fire and asked me laughingly if I was scared . 
I still remember that I could not sleep the whole night after the session . 
Stale bread , poverty , a woman who wanders around , 
He then put the ashes on his palm , muttering an incantation , and blew it towards the skies . 
Those of them , that use their magical powers for evil purposes , are called Dagis and are greatly feared . 
Often one can see mature women swooming , screaming or crying out Mama , O ' Mama ! 
A riddle from the Sirmaur area runsA bird has rare wings but she has nine thousand offspring . 
Jabbarue de dadhi putti , andar pal khel . 
The seeds were sown in water , The creaper grew in the backyard , 
In the Sarahana area people make the figure of the legendary king Bali with kneaded flour . 
Lohadi is a festival of fire worship . 
They were , therefore , recognised as eggs only with the aid of the microscope . 
While one is the basic unit of life , the other is that of inanimate matter . 
This is why the key to every biological problem including the riddle of heredity must finally be sought in the cell . 
As a result the incipient daughter cells are just half the size of the parent cell . 
It results in millions and billions of cells with exactly the same heredity or nuclear structure as the original . 
What then is this wondrous nuclear structure that is so accurately reproduced from cell to cell in each generation ? 
Chromosomes in turn are not homogeneous compositions nor single constituents . 
An interesting picture emerges when the eclectic social traditions of the area are viewed as a whole . 
All old women in the mother village are adressed as Nanis and ones in one 's own village as Dadi . 
Likewise , in man , the zygotic number is 46 and gametic number is 23 . 
The human sperm and ovum , for instance , each has information to make half a man . 
It is this bit of parental body that grows to enormous size to make the offspring . 
The body of an adult man , for instance , is 50 billion times as massive as the fertilised egg from which it originated . 
This is true of all organisms whether men , mice , cats , or green plants . 
This is why both heredity and environment go hand in hand in shaping the life of the offspring from cradle to grave . 
This is how our acqueous ancestors ventured out of their marine habitats to live on land as reptiles , birds , mammals and primates . 
A modern astronaut in a lunar voyage carries with him a prefabricated miniature of his terrestrial environment , his capsule and space suit . 
It is , therefore , obvious that consideration of life without its environmental support is all but meaningless . 
All life is the outcome of a complicated interaction between heredity and environment . 
It is determined by the number , type and arrangement of genes in the originating fertilised egg or seed . 
The phenotype includes all observable traits whether anatomical , physiological , psychological , mental or whatever . 
The phenotype of an organism is , therefore , the consequence of the growth and development of a genotype in a certain environment . 
Every plant , animal or person is the outcome of its genotype and its life experiences . 
First , the animals and plants should be raised under similar conditions or under conditions that differ in known ways . 
It follows that these plants are genotypically alike or very similar . 
And yet it can be seen that these plants with uniform heredity look very different when grown in different environments . 
History of science is littered ` with highly subjective dead theories based on ' observations ' that never were . 
The true ones , which survive because of their objectivity , alone are preserved and kept alive . 
If two dominant genes Y and R are originally together in the same chromosome , they will tend to remain together . 
It has been found to have many exceptions . 
It is not unlikely that some of Mendel 's own observations failed to conform to his second law . 
But the gift of vision to see way beyond one 's contemporaries often has its nemesis . 
The confusion in which the biologists were then beginning to flounder would have continued but for the emergence of T . 
Morgan found the banana fly an ideal subject for his experiments . 
He and his brilliant corps of student collaboratorsHerman J . 
Consider , for the sake of illustration , two heterozygous alleles Aa and Bb which are carried in the same pair of chromosomes . 
This is to say that the two dominants were linked in one chromosome and the two recessives in the other . 
On crossing with the double recessive , that same association is preserved , for only the double dominant and double recessive types appear . 
Such a situation where the double dominants and double recessives remain together is called coupling . 
In the second situation one dominant and one recessive are carried in each homologous chromosome . 
During the past few years or so , genetics has advanced from the genes of bacteria to those of multicellular animals . 
They are , to use communication lingo , mere ' noise ' punctuating or interrupting the true ' signal ' . 
When the root cause of the malady is made known , then the required rituals are performed and offerings made . 
It is believed that the illness will leave the sick one and enter the body of the person who walks over the scattered Satnaja . 
There is a decrease in the overall free energy or order of the system in accordance with the second law of thermodynamics . 
By carrying out the experiment in a calorimeter we can draw up the thermodynamic balance sheet for the operation . 
But the liver enzyme , called catalase , reduces it to less than 5 kilocalories . 
It is believed that the child imbibes the temperament of the person who gives him his first dose of Ghutti . 
In some areas the girls from the village chase the girl 's father round and round and he pretends to run away . 
For this , special poojas are offered and alms are distributed . 
Children born in the Gandhmool hour are considered unlucky , and are often gifted away ritually as soon as they are born . 
Nitrogenous base The sugar in the middle is always of the same kind , a different kind in DNA and RNA . 
We shall begin our description of the genetic language by first spelling out its alphabet . 
The alphabet has been evolved to transmit genetic information contained in the nuclear DNA to the site of protein synthesis within the cell . 
Fourth , transfer RNA carries out the protein synthesis from the surrounding pool of amino acids . 
We will not dwell on the elaborate researches done to discover triplet equivalents of the 20 amino acids . 
How many sets of 23 cards could you pick up in this way ? 
In some areas during the various festivals , gifts of jewellery and clothes are sent to the betrothed . 
The date for the wedding is set in consultation with the priest . 
Except in the Lahaul area , the bride and the groom are carried in palanquins . 
Single plant selections are then made and evaluated in the same way as in the pedigree method . 
The chief advantage of the bulk population method is that it allows the breeder to handle large numbers of individuals inexpensively . 
Often an outstanding variety can be further improved by transferring to it some specific character that it lacks . 
In this the girl is forcibly dragged away from a fair ground or a festival meeting . 
This is an influence of Tibetan customs . 
For the farmer must buy new hybrid seed each year from a specialised seed producer . 
The techniques developed for producing hybrid corn are now spreading to the production of other economically important crops also . 
For each species , races have been developed containing a gene that causes a failure of pollen production . 
It is these exceptions that are often the source of new discoveries in biology . 
One such treasureworthy exception pertains to the basic law of heredity requiring chromosomes to occur in pairs within the nucleus of a somatic cell . 
As we observed in Chap . 
There is also a tetraploid with 28 chromosomes . 
Once produced it was selected by man for extensive cultivation for its obvious advantages over its tetraploid counterpart . 
This emergence of bread wheat occurred naturally . 
In an experimental farm triticale yielded 8.3 and 7.2 tons per hectare . 
In the same way mathematical biologists have established a number of laws or principles governing the evolution of populations . 
Such a population will obviously be a mixed assortment of three genotypes YY , Yy , and yy . 
There are , of course , many complications ignored in our illustration . 
Thus it can be shown that the effect of selection is often balanced by that of mutation . 
Among the lower castes , often a womam may make four to five such changes of spouse in her lifetime . 
In this the couple seeking divorce takes a twig of Shur wood and snap it in front of witnesses and throw it behind them . 
In Lahaul a woollen thread is similarly snapped , symbolising the termination of marital ties . 
A friend of mine who was a native of the village I was visiting , had a neighbor who died suddenly . 
The existence of universal forms of metabolic pathways , the heart of cellular chemistry , is no mere accident . 
However , the hifi reproduction is not absolute because of the operation of quantum mechanical laws . 
The treatment of a heart attack is best done in a hospital and will not be gone into here . 
Coronary bypass surgery is not a cure but only a palliative procedure . 
The same precautions with regard to risk factors will have to continue even after bypass surgery . 
Much depends on the technique used , on the continuance of risk factors and other factors not well understood . 
In recent years , many patients have to have a second operation after a lapse of several years because of closure of these grafts . 
Prevention is the logical course to follow and many affluent countries now have vigorous preventive programs . 
All these events planted a deeply rooted hatred in their heart \* . 
God be merciful to both father and son ! ' 
Their scattered remains cherish , of course , the most inveterate aversion towards all Muslims . 
What scholar , however , has the same favourable opportunities of studying this subject as I have ? 
However , I thank God for that which He has bestowed upon me , and which must be considered as sufficient for the purpose . 
Think of Socrates when he opposed the crowd of his nation ... and ... died faithful to the truth . 
The Hindus had no men of this stamp both capable and willing to bring sciences to a classical perfection . 
In most parts of my work I simply relate without criticising , unless there be a special reason for doing so . 
I mention the necessary Sanskrit names and technical terms once where the context of our explanation demands it . 
The existence of God they consider as a real existence , because everything that exists , exists through him . 
Some Hindu scholar calls God a point , meaning to say thereby that the qualities of bodies do not apply to him . 
Praise be to God , who is far above measure and number ! 
Therefore , they called them gods , built temples in their names and offered them sacrifices ... 
They go even so far as to call c . 
They do not think , as other people do , that the fire is a hot dry body near the bottom of the ether . 
They Panca mataras describe them as the functions of the senses . 
But the soul for its part is guided by the intelligence with which it is inspired by God . 
( There follow some quotations from the Gita and other Hindu scriptures . 
The middle world , that one in which we live , is called madhyaloka and manushyaloka , i . 
In the latter , man has to earn , in the upper to receive his reward ; in the low , to receive punishment . 
They serve man in whatever he desires , and are near him in case of need . 
However , we can learn from the extract from Samkhya that this view is not correct . 
Brahman and Prajapati very nearly mean the same , but they bear different names on account of some quality or other . 
Indra is the ruler of the worlds . 
They have left their bodies behind them , for bodies are weights which impair the power and shorten the duration of life . 
Their qualities and conditions are different , in the same measure as one or other of the three primary forces prevails over them . 
It will remain among them as a generally recognised rule in all generations through the course of time and the flight of ages . 
Further , no law can be exchanged or replaced by another , for they use the laws simply as they find them . 
( There follows the story of King Ambrisha who after a successful reign had taken exclusively to meditation and worship . 
A famous idol of theirs was that of Multan , dedicated to the sun . 
Suppose that it was made in the very end of Kntayuga , the which has since elapsed amounts to 216COMMA432 years . 
Each pada has eight syllables , which are different in all four padas . 
The last syllable of Theory of the Sloka each of the four padas must be the same , viz . 
Further , the fifth syllable in e & chpada must always be laehu , the sixth syllable guru . 
The seventh syllable must be laghu in the second and fourth padas , guru in the first and third padas . 
The other syllables are entirely dependent upon accident or the writer 's fancy . 
( A quotation from Brahmagupta , showing the way in which the Hindus use arithmetic in the metrical system , is given . 
The present times , however , are not of this kind . 
I have commenced translating them , but have not yet finished my work . 
I have not enumerated it in this list , because the pretensions which he brings forward in this chapter are repudiated by mathematics . 
Under governors they understand the Acaryas , i . 
As soon as the guest arrives , he is offered a bed , food , a hookah and tea . 
He is looked upon as an incarnation of the gods . 
If he comes on the day of a festival he must not leave without having had a meal . 
Visiting relatives and married daughters must not be sent back without gifts of sweets and clothes . 
The stomach , Bhurloka . 
The mouth . 
The eyebrow . 
Above the forehead . 
We shall now speak of the division of the surface of the uppermost earth and of related subjects . 
The inhabitants of the former island leave their homes , settle on the new one and colonise it . 
According to the religious traditions of the Hindus , the earth on which we live is round and surrounded by a sea . 
On the sea lies an earth like a collar , and on this earth lies again a round sea like a collar . 
The number of dry collars , called islands , is seven , and likewise that of the seas . 
The total size of both earths and seas is 254 . 
This revolution is finished in 30 muhuita , i . 
He approached Rishi Vashishtha for this favor but was told that it was impossible . 
Further , he was scoffed by Vashishtha 's children . 
Then he went to Rishi Visvamitra who was pleased by him and began making a ' new Paradise ' for the king . 
The latter had a son called Dhruva , who was slighted by one of the wives of his father . 
On account of this , he was presented with the power to turn round all the stars as he pleased . 
He appeared in the Manvantara of Svayambhuva , the first of all Manvantaras , and he has for ever remained in his place , ... 
Some describe this mountain as rising above the surface of the earth to an excessive height . 
It is situated under the pole , and the stars revolve round its foot , so that rising and setting depends upon Meru . 
The day of the angels who inhabit Meru lasts six months , and their night also six months . '' 
( The views of Balabhadra on this topic are criticised . 
When the Yadavas reached near it and sat drinking , a quarrel occurred among them and they killed each other with the bardi bundles . 
Arjuna , who had been ordered by Vasudeva to burn his body and carry away the women was attacked by robbers on the way . 
Though he beat them off he felt that his strength was failing him . 
He and his brothers , therefore ' emigrated ' to the north and entered the mountains . 
They were drawn by two horses ... 
A ratha comprehends besides , one elephant , three riders , and five footmen . 
Therefore not only astronomers , but also other people , think it wearisome and unpractical to use them . 
The Hindus consider it as unlucky , and do not celebrate any of the festivals in it which they celebrate in the other months . 
The most unlucky time in this month is that day on which the lunation reaches its end ... 
This is the difference between the motions of the two heavenly luminaries , whilst the direction in which they move is the same . 
In September , in the Bhadravah valley , the sacred fair of ' Pata ' happens . 
He sleeps on the earth without any bed , and only nourishes himself by fruit , vegetables , and roots . 
He lets the hair grow long , and does not anoint himself with oil . 
The fourth period extends till the end of life . 
He wears a red garment and holds a stick in his hand . 
He does not converse with anybody at all . 
If any one gives him something , he does not leave a remainder of it for the following day . 
A man sets off to wander to some holy region , to some much venerated idol or to some of the holy rivers . 
He shaves the hair of returns home . 
The holy , much venerated ponds are in the cold mountains round Meru ... 
We have already quoted Hindu traditions to the effect that in the Dvipas there are rivers as holy as the Ganges . 
On the surface of the stones between two terraces they construct staircases rising like pinnacles . 
However , he must not go beyond it . 
If a wife loses her husband by death , she can not marry another man . 
The more ' distant the relationship of a woman with Forbidden degrees of marriage regard to her husband the better . 
In that case the prohibition is waived , but , notwithstanding , such a marriage is an object of dislike to them . 
also is a Brahman ; if she is a Sudra , her child is a Sudra . 
The child receives a name after the days of the childbed have elapsed . 
These days are eight for the Brahman , twelve for the Kshatriya , fifteen for the Vaisya , and thirty for the Sudra . 
The longest duration of the suckling of the child is three years , but there is no obligation in this matter . 
The fault , however , in this lies with the kings , not with the nation . 
The kings make them an attraction for their cities , a bait of pleasure for their subjects , for no other but financial reasons . 
In case there is no written document the contest is settled by means of witnesses without a written document . 
The witnesses must not be less than four , but there may be more . 
When the Arti is performed in the temple , several goats are sacrificed . 
People stay up the whole night and dance their dances within the temple primises . 
An annual fair of the Sikhs at Panvata Sahib happens each year on the 27th of March . 
The Holi melas at Palampur Ghughar , Paprola , Baijnath , Jaisinghpur and Sujanpur also have an attraction of their own . 
The Holi festival of Sujanpur traces its colourful history back to the glorious days of king Sansar Chand . 
Crushed by her evil ways , the people once went to her in body and begged her to have mercy on them . 
Hoi agreed not to torture them collectively if they had agreed to present her with one human each day . 
Hoi agreed to do that and sent him back safe to get married to his betrothed . 
Since that day the Ashtami put an end to the terrible human sacrifice and is celebrated each year as Hoi Ashtami . 
On the statues found in the Chamba area , the name of one Gugga often occurs . 
The statues of Ardha Vishnu are beautiful examples of the art of metal casting . 
In Chamba , Kullu , Sirmaur and Kinnaur areas , some of these old families have interesting collections of such traditional articles . 
The tribal areas have their own kind of statues which reflect the religious beliefs of the tribals . 
He was a great lover of art and a devotee of krishna . 
His life 's ambition was to be like his hero Krishna . 
After king Ghamand Chand annexed Kullu , the Kangra artists began to visit the Kullu area and an intermingling of styles became possible . 
Sajanu is . 
Subsequently other art lovers like W . 
Some paintings also depict the common folk , which points at the fact that this school was not limited to the feudal courts alone . 
This is first covered with a layer of a thick white liquid and then smoothed over with a conchshell . 
This imparts the paper a firmness and delicacy of texture . 
These are painted on walk especially treated for the purpose with clay , lime and Golu . 
The palace at Chamba is a delightful example of this art form . 
The Pahadi handkerchief enjoys a special place among the handicrafts of the area . 
These handkerchiefs are usually produced in the Chamba , Kangra , Mandi , Bilaspur and Kullu areas . 
Sometimes little round pieces of mirror are also incorporated beautifully into the embroidery pattern . 
The themes of the plays range from historical to mythological , and are often interpersed with contemporary references . 
These impromptu shows often present sharp and pungent satires about the bureaucracy , the social malpractices like racial discrimnation and miserliness . 
Sly and sharp social commentary comes in form of jokes and puns packed with wit and humor . 
Often words from other languages are used for comic effect . 
The role of the female dancer is very important in folk theater . 
The dialogues in these plays are short and sarcastic or sedate according to the occasion . 
The ' Holki ' or the dance of the gods is a real visual treat . 
The people belonging to the ' Nod ' tribe put up special acts for entertaining the spectators . 
Part of these is rather vulgar . 
At the Lohadi festival , the village boys act out the Haran Ka Swang and go dancing and singing from door to door . 
This Swang lasts through the night . 
These are full of songs and dance patterns and are mostly enacted by the weavers or the Jhirs or troupes of traditional singers . 
The Lahaul , Spiti and Pangi areas are largely followers of Buddhism . 
The Buddhist Viharas at Tambo , Dankhar and Spiti are very popular in the area . 
The Trilok Nath Shrine at Spiti has a statue with eleven faces and a thousand arms . 
An old tree near the shrine is said to be an old demon , who is worshipped as a local deity . 
Mohana , and Gangi are very popular . 
This may be shown by the same matrix method we have hitherto employed . 
In the absence of dominance , each of these 27 distinct genotypes would produce a separate effect . 
However , a mating between the triple . 
We thus observe that Mendel 's second law provides an opportunity for bringing together genes which have arisen separately . 
Let A be the gene for eye color and B that foi the wing shape in the case of banana fly , Drosphila melanogaster . 
Together they measure the percentage frequency of crossingover . 
In the instant case , the crossover value is 2 per cent . 
The example just described is one of coupling . 
Thus there are four pairs of chromosomes in banana fly . 
Consequently all its genes belong to one or other of the four groups . 
There were , of course , many tricks to learn about how to prepare suitable immunising materialsthe vaccines and sera . 
Obviously , therefore , an antigen and its corresponding antibody can not normally coexist in the same individual . 
But we now know enough about them to identify them and even to produce them deliberately for use . 
Since there are two antigens A and B , we can have only four mutually exclusive possibilities . 
The Pagband system decrees that the property shall first be distributed among the daughters and then among the sons . 
Matches in the same Gotra are not considered very good . 
Per contra , since the serum of group AB can not But it does provide a simpler basis for paternity tests than OAB classification . 
The reason is that the three genotypes MM , MN , and NN are all phenotypically recognisable . 
A child who possesses a M or N antigen , not present in the putative parent , can not be his offspring . 
But they are much Both the blood systems OAB as well as MN are quite independent of each other . 
Consider first the genetics of the MN blood groups . 
But many genes have mutated more than once in evolution and now exist in three or more different forms . 
Thanks to our new knowledge of the interplay of heredity and environment we now know better . 
The most striking difference in this respect is that between males and females . 
The reason for this discrimination seems to lie in the fact that the human female has to bear the burden of maternity . 
As a result artificial mutations may also be induced . 
But there do arise once in a while some mutations that are either better or at any rate no worse than their originals . 
Unfortunately , we can not even discover what would happen because of the great complexity of the complimentary relationship between heredity and environment . 
An XYY individual with an extra male chromosome Y is usually predisposed to criminal violence . 
Likewise , an XXY individual with an extra female chromosome X is outwardly a male but has very small testes and somewhat feminised breasts . 
This hereditary anemia was first recognised in the populations of the Mediterranean countries where malaria had been rampant for centuries . 
Since the malarial parasite multiplies in the red cell , living largely on hemoglobin , it is not surprising that this should be so . 
This variant can carry only half the normal amount of oxygen from the lungs to the diverse parts of the body . 
The next step ' a ' in this conversion happens to be the production of tyrosine . 
Such genetic effects are simply failures to make a specific enzyme necessary for a given metabolic pathway which is synthesised by the normal gene . 
These proportions may be transformed into percentages by multiplying them by 100 . 
Vigour has a definite , though complicated , genetic basis . 
This increased vigor produced by crossing two different strains or races is precisely what we earlier called heterosis . 
Progenies of individual plant selections are then grown and evaluated by simple observation frequently over a period of several years . 
During the period of bulk propagation natural selection tends to eliminate plants having poor survival value . 
All such plants with more than two sets of chromosomes in their cells are called polyploids . 
Polyploids are seldom fround in the animal kingdom , but they are not at all uncommon in the plant kingdom . 
Consider , for example , wheat . 
The basic variety is a diploid plant with seven pairs of chromosomesa total of 14 . 
This is precisely how the present varieties of ordinary wheat have arisen . 
As we mentioned before , ordinary wheat is a hexaploid with 42 chromosomes . 
But increase in height of the stems is a natural reaction of plants which are given irrigation , water and fertilisers . 
However , wheat production in many parts of the world including subtropical and tropical highlands is still limited by stem rust . 
If a tetraploid wheat with 28 chromosomes is crossed with the diploid rye , the result is a hexaploid plant with 42 chromosomes . 
But if a hexaploid wheat with 42 chromosomes is crossed with it , the upshot is an octaploid having 56 chromosomes . 
So far the hexaploid plants have proved to be more stable than the octaploids . 
The cultured embryo is kept in the dark until roots begin to appear . 
It is then allowed to grow in light under constant illumination . 
This is how a new viable hybrid cereal of wheat and rye first arose . 
Their genetic ` makeup clearly indicated the value of the illicit stray wheat pollen grain . 
The sterile triticale plant was a tall hexaploid cross called X 308 . 
The progeny of X 308 and the unknown dwarf wheat are now called Armadillo . 
They have two main advantages over wheat . 
First , in comparable conditions they seem to give higher yields than wheat . 
ters , an ancient dogma revived by Lamarck in 1809 . 
It is greatly compounded by the inaccessibility of their reproductive mechanism and long duration of their reproductive cycle . 
Both have been a perpetual problem to natural scientists concerned with their evolution and heredity . 
In animals the adaptive changes are supposed to be more indirect . 
Conversely , the disuse of other parts leads to their atrophy . 
For a much longer period Jews and Mohammedans have had their male babies circumcised and yet their boys are still born unmutilated . 
Quantum physics is a case in point . 
Likewise , if a nuclear entity like an electron is a discrete particle , it is also a wave diffused over a continuum . 
Since then much work has been done on this ' transformation ' phenomenon . 
There it places the original segment and establishes itself as part of the bacterial cell 's inheritable mechanism . 
But he rose to real prominence in 1929 when he first proposed his vernalisation technique to reduce losses of winter wheat . 
Such recombinant genetic manipulations have hitherto been confined to only lower organisms , like unicellular bacteria . 
The reason is the fundamental difference between the cells of bacteria and those of higher plants and animals . 
But polygenic characters sponsored by several genes have not yet been transferred . 
There are two views about polygenic manipulations of bacteria and viruses . 
There are further complications due to diverse interrelationships between these levels . 
Because of these complications , the application of DNA recombinant technique to higher plants and animals is still riddled with very onerous difficulties . 
It is not yet clear if the same technique can be applied to higher organisms . 
But given enough time , the knowledge to manipulate the stuff of life the ultimate technology may not prove that elusive after all . 
Still other uses of genetic engineering techniques are improvement in the quality of plants . 
ture began . 
One of the nicest things one could do is to make plants that could fix nitrogen without . 
Now they go by the name of genes , and we are their survival machines . '' 
What then is the reason for their view of the inverted relationship between the genes and the organisms to which they give rise ? 
One reason is the observed fall in fertility of some animals , such as rats under the stress of overcrowding . 
But the population selection argument is merely an Aunt Sally set up for the fun of knocking it down . 
Both arguments that Dawkins contrasts take for granted that reduction of fertility is a genetic adaptation for survival under overcrowding . 
But such rigid inflexibility was not the association he had in mind when he wrote it . 
It is a devious way of wriggling out of an untenable position he had taken earlier . 
His suggestion of ' common wives ' must have caused as much stir in his days as that of Muller in our own . 
Muller died in 1967 and his idea does not seem likely to be brought into practice in any foreseeable future . 
He was not content with merely safeguarding the heredity of the guardians . 
A Mrs Shakespeare on the pill Need not have labored with a Will ; 
Sterilisation of such defective or diseased individuals can not effectively remove the guilty gene in a single or for that matter in several generations . 
In India there are several centres today where such treatment can be obtained . 
Refined sugar , apart from producing dental caries , is believed to be responsible for atherosclerosis . 
The armed-forces armed forces have regular annual health checks to ensure that a high standard of fitness is maintained . 
When should it be done ? 
The barriers which separate Muslims and Hindus rest on different causes . 
This custom is especially beneficial to the smaller and poorer farmers , whose necessary chores are thus completed on time without expense . 
The Thatha This is a custom prevalent in the Kinnaur region and is designed to ward off the evil spirits and ghosts . 
Even the poorest families celebrate it once in every three or four years . 
They go even beyond all we have hitherto mentioned , so as to speak of wife , son , Notions of the educated Hindus . 
And this it is which we shall explain , viz . 
Purusha Life is the only attribute which they give to it . 
Next follows the general matter , i . 
The first power is rest and goodness , and hence come existing and growing . 
The second is exertion and fatigue , and hence come firmness and duration . 
The third is languor and irresolution , and hence come ruin and perishing . 
Then the soul quits the body in which it has been staying . 
This is like the Barzakh of the Persians , an intermediary stage between the periods of acting and earning and that of receiving award . 
This was also the opinion of the ancient Greeks ; ... 
Then it dispenses with matter , and perceives that that which it held to be good and delightful is in reality bad and painful . 
This would interrupt the continuity , and would prevent cogitation becoming united with the object of cogitation . 
And this is not the object kept in view , which is , on the contrary , the continuity of cogitation . 
Virtuous behavior is that which is described by the religious law . 
The folklores prevalent in the area often have references to the custom . 
The canal was then completed without any further mishaps . 
In Hebrew they call a man who is married in this way Yabham . 
This being deeply rooted in the nature of man , the legislators of antiquity tried to influence them from this weak point of theirs . 
Some people even pretend to know that all mankind , before God sent them ` his prophets , were one large idolatrous body ... 
When then the Karmatians occupied Multan , Jalam Ibn Shaiban , the usurper , broke the idol into pieces and killed its priests . 
It is ot bronze , and is nearly the size of a man . 
Of Somanath we shall hereafter speak in the proper place . 
This Cakrasvamin is said to have been made in the time of Bharata as a memorial of wars connected with this name . 
Further , he ordered that servants and priests to minister to the idols should be nominated from different classes of the people . 
The Brahmana are deyoted to the Eight Mothers , the Shamanians , to Buddha , to Arhant the class called Nagna . 
On the whole , to each idol certain people are devoted who constructed it , for those know best how to serve it . '' 
Most of them are composed in a metre called sloka . 
The reason of this has already been explained ... 
The Veda , however , is not composed in this common metre , sloka , but in another . 
Some Hindus say that no one could , compose anything in the same metre . 
However , their scholars maintain that this is possible indeed , but that they refrain from trying it merely from veneration for the Veda . 
It treats of the sacrifices to the fire , and is recited in three different ways . 
First , in a uniform manner of reading , just as every other book is read . 
Secondly , in such a way that a pause is made after every single word . 
Thirdly , in a method which is the most meritorious , and for which plenty of reward in heaven is promised . 
The book Smnti is derived from the Veda . 
How could anybody know the titles of all of them , more especially if he is not a Hindu , but a foreigner ? 
The title itself gives an indication of those times . 
The book has 100COMMA000 slokas in eighteen parts , each of which is called Parvan . 
their estimate , called vyakamna , i . 
The book became the fashion and highly prized . 
The Arabs are not capable of . 
By meamie , I mean that laghu is reckoned = one matm , i . 
On the ' Sankranti ' day the Brahmin priests visit their clients who give them alms according to their means . 
There are many rituals associated with the coming of a new bride into the family . 
The order in which the women unveil the bride 's face also follows a regular pattern . 
At present it consists of isolated mountains between which the ocean flows . 
The inhabitants of that region prepare for them cooked rice , and bring it to them on leaves . 
This rule seldom has an exception ; however , certain amount of extraordinary meteorological occurrences is peculiar to every province of India . 
And thus they go on counting , beginning anew with Sunday , . 
Similarly , the moon is also called Candra , which means the left eye of Narayana , as the sun is his right eye ... 
It applies even to the whole world , insofar as it is divided into an upper and an under part . 
When they enumerate the heavens , they call the sum of them Brahmanda . 
The Hindus , however , are devoid of training in astronomy , and have no correct astronomical notions . 
Further , they say the water was rolling and foaming . 
Then something white came ' forth from the water , of which the Creator created the egg of Brahman . 
If they said mountains instead of rains , the matter would be somewhat more plausible . 
Thus the water is an instrument in the hand of the Creator when he wants to create something out of matter ... 
He imagined the earth to be below and the heaven in only one of the six directions from the earth , i . 
The married women braid their hair and wear numerous pieces of jewellery denoting their married status . 
They must not sit on a seat higher than the one occupied by the elders of the family . 
In the extracts reproduced below such portions have been omitted . 
Only the geographical particulars as also those relating to the social organization of the inhabitants of the various dvipas have been included . 
It has ... seven great ' rivers , one of which equals the Ganges in purity . 
The water bubbles up for them out of the earth , and drops down from the mountains . 
They have no rains and no flowing river ; they know neither summer nor winter . 
They are of one kind , without any distinction of caste . 
They never suffer from dearth , and do not get old ... 
It is as if they were in a suburb of paradise ... 
The Muslims call the river , after it has passed the Sindhi city Aror , as a united stream , the river ofMihran . 
The river Sarsati falls into the sea at the distance of a bowshot east of Somanath . 
The river Jaun joins the Ganges below Kanoj , which lies west of it . 
The united stream falls into the great ocean near Gangasagara . 
Behind the Ganges flow the rivers Rahab and Kawini , which join the river Sarwa near the city of Ban ... 
These are the good and bad beings through whose territories the Ganges flows . 
Afterwards it enters into branches of the mountain Vindhya , where thejelephants live , aind then it falls into the southern ocean . 
The folk art forms are much in evidence here . 
At these brisk sales there are woollen shawls and sheets , bamboo and other handicraft goods . 
One of the chief features of the fair is the swimming match organized on the occasion . 
In Rivalsar , on the first day of the monsoon months of Ashadh a fair , called ' Nahauli ' happens . 
This is a fair for merchants , folk dancers and gods and goddesses . 
It is celebrated in the traditional way at the temple of Trilokinath . 
A horse is also taken round the temple . 
The king then rides the horse and visits the fair ground which is dotted all over with small shops . 
Chhetsu is yet another popular fair in the valley . 
A tale about the fair is often told which links it to a ruler of ancient Tibet by the name of Lang Darma . 
After the sacrifice he worships his master . 
He fasts a day and he breaks fast a day , but he is never allowed to eat meat . 
Washing is a cleansing from accidental impurity and a preparation for prayer . 
Therefore at this time the Brahman must clean . 
The evening is the time of supper and of prayer . 
The Brahman may take his supper and pray without having previously washed himself . 
To neglect their maintenance would be a great sin . 
Further , he puts something aside for the cattle , the birds , and the fire . 
Over the remainder he says prayers and eats it . 
If another one uses it , it is broken . 
I have seen Brahmans who allowed their relatives to eat with them from the same plate , but most of them disapprove of this . 
He is obliged to dwell between the river Sindh in the north and the river Carmanvati in the south . 
He is not allowed to cross either of these frontiers so as to enter the country of the Turks or of the Karnata . 
Further , he must live between the ocean in the east and west . 
This happens in Rampur between the 11th to the 13th of November . 
The Nalbari fair at Bilaspur , and the Bhikhashah fair at Kangra are another major trade fairs . 
It is said to be in the memory of Renuka , the mother of the Brahmin warrior Parashuram . 
It is surrounded on all sides with thick forests which add to its beauty . 
He is only allowed to gird himself with a single yajnopavita , which is made of two cords . 
The Sudra is like a servant to the Brahman , taking care of his affairs and serving him . 
Once , however , a son of a Brahman predeceased his father . 
Therefore most of them have been abolished , and only few of them remain and are practised nowadays . 
According to the Hindus , the fire eats everything . 
That which the fire eats for its share , reverts to the Devas , because the fire comes out of their mouths . 
Further , they recite the prescribed texts of the Veda in case they offer on their own behalf . 
However , if they offer in the name of somebody else , they do not recite anything . 
In Multan there is a pond in which the Hindus worship by bathing themselves , if they are not prevented . 
fVarahamihira 's Samhtta is On single holy ponds quoted about a pond in Taneswar , which is regarded as very holy . ) 
We ha '' ve already quoted words spoken by Saunaka . 
The mutual assistance of civilised people presupposes a certain difference among them , in consequence of which the one requires the other . 
According to the same principle , God has created the worid as containing many differences in itself . 
They want to live there to the end of their lives , that their reward after death should be the better for it . 
Another place of this kind is Taneshar , also called Kurukshetra , i . 
Therefore , the country was called after him , and venerated for his sake . 
It is for this reason that people visit the place . 
Nowadays die Hindus also visit Kashmir . 
It is obligatory with them every day to give alms as much as possible . 
The same obligation rests also on the common people , but they will always lie and cheat in the declarations about their property . 
Further , trading businesses , too , pay a tribute for the same reason . 
Others divide ' this income into four portions . 
Usury or taking percentages is forbidden . 
Every nation has particular customs of marriage , and especially those who claim to have a religion and law of divine origin . 
The Law of marriage Hindus marry at a very young age ; therefore the parents arrange the marriage for their sons . 
On that occasion the Brahmans perform the rites of the sacrifices , and they as well as others receive alms . 
Husband and wife can only be Separated by death , as they have no divorce . 
A man may marry one to four wives . 
The banquet in the sixth month must be more rich and more liberal than the others . 
With the end of the year the duties towards the deceased have been fulfilled . 
If they died there , they had the fate just mentioned ; but if they recovered , they returned to their dwellings . 
On the following day they give alms and eat . 
They make the fires in sixteen different spots and in four different groups . 
In each group a Brahman performs the sacrifice , so that there are four performing priests as there are four Vedas . 
On the 16th they return home In this month occurs the vernal equinox , called Vascmta . 
They Vernal equinox determine the day by calculation and make it a festival , when people invite the Brahmans . 
The villagers also welcome the team that had gone up the hills to look for flowers . 
The priest from the temple comes and performs Puja to it and people line the path with burning torches . 
In the month of September the Minghal fair happens in the Pangi valley . 
Thousands of devotees from far off villagers traverse along mountain ridges and rivers and mountain passes to come to this . 
In the night they light a great number of lamps in every place so that the air is perfectly clear . 
On full moon 's day of the same month there is another festival of 15th Margasirsha the women . 
On the eighth day of the black half , which is called Sakartam , they eat turnips . 
( Diagrams showing the prognostics of the four fixed and seven movable karanas are given . 
Both the methods , that of the Hindus and that of Alkindi must be treated separately . 
Saturn , Mars , and the Sun , which are called kruragraha . 
Among the latter , they also count the dragon 's head , though in reality it is not a star . 
However , alone by itself , it is lucky . 
Mulatrikona is a powerful influence , attributed to a planet , when it is in the gaudium in one of its two houses ... 
( A ` Table giving similar information , as above , in regard to these three types of comets is given . 
He had translated this book into Arabic and has quoted from it extensively on matters of religion and philosophy . 
Festivals and Feast Day Festivals have an important place in the lives of the people in Himachal . 
The tribal festivals have their own identity which is totally different from the festival celebrated elsewhere . 
It is considered auspicious to hear them utter the names of the months in the year . 
Two colourful festivals are celebrated during this month . 
Durga is the chief deity in the area , and is supposed to protect the people from illness and mental sorrows . 
There they bathe and fill small metal pots with water and come home and bathe the deities with this and offer them flowers . 
On the Baisakhi day Ralli is brought out ceremoniously in a palanquin and taken to a river bank . 
On this day the walls in the house are cleared , painted and decorated with figures of male animals and crops symbolising plenty . 
Only when these symptoms persist , appear to be severe and hamper the child 's daily functioning should parents get worried . '' 
The raw data already available from the Bangalore leg of the study has thrown up the figure of 1.5 per cent for ADHD . 
The flowering of bamboo is a mixed blessing for tribals By N . 
The deep , dark green gave way to creamy white , almost as if an unseen hand had scattered confetti in the jungles . 
In a momentous event of natural extravagance the staid bamboo groves , spread over some 3COMMA000 hectares , came into bloom . 
That 's good news and bad news . 
Somewhere between barley and wheat in size , the tasty bamboo seeds contained in spiky brown balls attract man , birds and rats alike . 
'' We cook it like rice and make roti from its flour as well , '' says Ratan Ram of Bali Konta village . 
Once the seeds are gone , the vermin swarm into nearby fields and destroy crops and often famine follows . 
The considerable leaf litter on the forest floor only increases the danger . 
Biologically , the regeneration of bamboo should be more vigorous after flowering because of the seed fall . 
Moreover , there are culinary impediments in the way of regeneration . 
Cattle finish off whatever is left by human beings . 
It takes almost 15 years for bamboo plants to reach maturity . 
Talking of bamboo as a source of nutrition may sound bizarre . 
The law is not being universally applied . 
Why target those who have converted balconies into rooms when you have given amnesty to others ? '' 
Jagmohan may have acquired the reputation of being a public crusader but is also a victim of similar compulsions . 
He also demanded electricity and water for its inhabitants . 
Anant Ram Dairy being an unauthorised colony on public land , the occupants of the colony are illegal . 
The sad songs about the queen ' Sui ' revive old memories in the hearts of the people . 
The brass masks of the gods are cleaned and polished . 
Every fourth year a festival called Bala is celebrated . 
On this day old weapons belonging to the deities are brought out and cleaned . 
The villagers divide themselves into two teams and play act a mock battle . 
In the village the deities are taken around in their palanquins . 
But then the Dairy also has poorer sections which own small tenements and have been tagged along with the affluent . 
And indeed none of the 1COMMA071 colonies adheres to any law . 
They have all come up without any sanction . 
It was stated then that the process would be completed only if the norms were strictly adhered to . 
But 23 years on , most of these colonies are yet to meet the requirements . 
Everything in Delhi has been taken over by unscrupulous elements including builders , government officials and their political masters . '' 
Politics does seem to be the overriding factor . 
Already the Congress is crying hoarse . 
Delhi Congress chief Subhash Chopra wants to know why these localities should be discriminated against . 
The answer again is political . 
It was in 1993 that the BJP promised in its manifesto the regularisation of these localities . 
The fact that the Central Board of Direct Taxes will fix the market rate is another contentious issue . 
The decision taken , the Government should now ready itself for a long haul on the issue . 
That is the final lesson of the story . 
Without identifying themselves they demanded to be allowed in , much in the manner robbers would . 
In menacing tones , more typical of criminals than officials , they ordered her to chain her dogs . 
They lounged around on her sofas and demanded food and endless cups of tea . 
Jaitly is a powerful personage and so was able to call a press conference and announce that the officials had demanded a bribe . 
The problem is not new . 
The reason why officials can get away with murder is that the prime-minister prime minister has been hopelessly unable to bring about administrative reform . 
Nothing has been done to curb the powers of officials which is dangerous when you consider how quickly other things have changed . 
Among the things that have changed dramatically is the media . 
Private TV channels have made all the difference so trial by the media has become a powerful tool in the hands of the bureaucracy . 
Transparency in government is currently a fashionable idea . 
But transparency is exactly what does not suit officials . 
The only way to solve this problem is through administrative reforms that would reduce the powers of our officials . 
What about an inquiry on national TV into the methods its officials use ? 
And how about a few raids on their homes to see how many have assets disproportionate to their income ? 
As a special concession we can spare them the gunmen . 
Forcefully arguing in public against the Maharashtra Government 's prosecution of Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray wasn ` t one of them . 
So what if Jethmalani 's argument was unhesitatingly upheld in the Metropolitan Magistrates Court of Mumbai ? 
When it comes to Thackeray , India 's powerful liberal establishment loses sight of rationality , common sense and even the rule of law . 
In a sense it is understandable that the Shiv Sena chief arouses such passionate hatred . 
Both in word and deed , he epitomises everything the liberal finds absolutely repugnant . 
Thackeray , it is widely acknowledged , is a blustering bully , viciously communal , intensely parochial and openly contemptuous of all democratic niceties . 
To them , he is the '' other '' . 
Without exaggeration , Thackeray is Mumbai 's first citizen . 
Whether it is the mahurat of a film , a felicitation of R . 
Sanjay Dutt took his help in getting out of a sticky situation and Lara Dutta made Matoshri her first port of call in Mumbai . 
Thackeray , it would seem , constitutes the ultimate stamp of legitimacy and approval . 
So , why this bewildering hypocrisy ? 
If Thackeray is a despicable creature unworthy of even being granted bail , why isn ` t he made a social and political pariah ? 
Often , it is believed , evil spirits and ghosts get into the palanquin and increase the weight suddenly . 
Many dances are also performed with ancient historical weapons , 
Minjar Among the monsoon festivals one of the most colourful ones is Minjar . 
The priest is also given gifts of money and food grains . 
The rakhi threads are spun out of cotton and dyed in red . 
It represents , not a specific area , but a whole group of dialects . 
The area of this dialect extends from Bhadrawah in northern Punjab , to Nepal . 
The natives of the area were the Khasas , the Kiratas and the Kinnars . 
The word Kirat itself stands or a hill tribe . 
Traces of the Kirta language are still available in the Malana village of Kallu district . 
It is spoken by over three lakh people . 
During the period of the feudal states , it was written in the Takkri script . 
Kinnauri This is commonly spoken in the Kinnaur region . 
Find me a groom good enough for me , 
Such couplets show the effect of the Bhramara Geet tradition of the Bhakti poetry . 
The kingdom without the king , the sick ones without the doctor And the wife without the husband , roam the earth restlessly . 
The ballads of Nankhoo Gaddan and Maina Chamyan are based on this . 
Someone has cast a spell on my child , 
Their unhappy spirits haunted the villages for a long time till they performed penances and gave Jataras for them . 
The themes of these songs are numerous , ranging from songs of fun to songs of fear and love . 
The winters are a slack season here when working in the fields or forests or by the rivers is impossible . 
For two or three uionths the people sit indoors by the fireside regarding each other with tales . 
He kills the serpent king across the hills and also the demon guarding princess Roopkesi and brings her home . 
The tale of the blind man and the hunchback describes these two friends living together . 
Similarly the stupid weaver gives all the wrong answers and yet is rewarded by the king . 
'' There were clearly pressure groups building up , '' claims an angry Krishen . 
One has even been sent to jail . 
Won ` t this affect the UDF 's prospects ? 
People know this . 
So is there a deal with the BJP ? 
Dhall managed to shake them off by shouting for help and acting aggressive , but was bitten and badly bruised . 
No place appears safe . 
'' In my experience , there has been a 10 to 15 per cent annual increase in monkey bites , '' says Gautam . 
'' And if concrete steps are not taken soon , the percentage is likely to double . '' 
Why this sudden anger of the primates against people ? 
They say you made billions and built palaces . 
Is this true ? 
When that failed , the bogey of corruption was raised . 
But the reality is that India copied my energy and software policies . 
But dialogues have led us nowhere because they don ` t want the return of Benazir . 
They want to use the army against me . 
If they want such a face , they have not come to me . 
And let me tell you , I am not only a democratic face , I am a person with her own base . 
In my life , I have accepted challenges . 
We can sit and talk about how to manage this . 
We understand violence should end and our countries should live in peace . 
I am prepared to play my role . 
But what is the legal community 's verdict on judicial activism ? 
'' There has to be a better way to introduce CNG , '' agrees Supreme Court lawyer Indira Jaisingh . 
'' It 's difficult to guess why the court must stick to the last date when it causes grief to so many . '' 
The issue has also reopened the debate over whether the apex court is encroaching upon the executive 's turf . 
Senior Supreme Court lawyer B . 
Reacting to Dikshit 's words he says , '' It is a dishonest stand taken by the chief minister . 
They had three years , but could not deliver . '' 
Raval withdrew from the state 's case after its defiant remarks . 
It 's a reflection of popular perceptions in a country where the judiciary is vested with parental authority . 
Retired Supreme Court judge Kuldeep Singh , the original '' Green Judge '' , scoffs at those who urge judicial restraint . 
The stage is now set for a potentially damaging confrontation . 
On Republic Day this year , Nadeesh Kodrani , 12 , walked on this street in Anjar with hundreds of his schoolmates ... 
Then the earth shook and for 150 of them , it was their last walk on this planet . 
Last Wednesday , Nandeesh walked on the same street with a man who was till the other day the most powerful politician on earth . 
William Jefferson Clinton , the man who walked with Nandeesh , is good at telegenic memorial services . 
An enchanter who knows how to win hearts and influence minds . 
'' I hope he will really help us to rebuild our houses , '' said Nandeesh . 
Clinton was instrumental in the formation of the AIF . 
It all started when his office contacted Victor Menezes , chairman and CEO of Citibank , with the idea . 
AIF wants to tap private , corporate and academic resources for the rehabilitation of 100 villages in Kutch . 
So , imagine this . 
Women wielding lathis swathed in gold foil and flowers . 
Women marching through the streets , daring the 50COMMA000 men watching in awe from their rooftops , to arouse their animosity . 
Hours after drinking in the unaccustomed freedom , Purohit admitted that she would love to lead '' such a life the entire year '' . 
Now , however , women veer towards contemporary royalty . 
The women adorn the idols with personal offerings of gold jewellery . 
Ornaments singled out by a selection committee and retained on the idol are believed to bring the giver good luck . 
It is said that in some groups , the widow performs the ritual in the nude . 
Which explains why the men ensure they stay behind closed doors prior to and after the procession . 
While India has sent terms of reference for the groups , Bangladesh has not replied . 
She has been quick to defuse the tension , but has held back from offering an apology . 
With parliamentary elections due this year , the retreat from Pyrdiwah , or Padua as Bangladesh calls it , was considered a let down . 
The External Affairs Ministry was quick to deny any such setback . 
'' We will continue to negotiate on Padua through diplomatic channels and at flag meetings , '' said Foreign Secretary Syed Muazzam Ali . 
But was the episode over ? 
In the process , she has lost much of the public support she once enjoyed . 
If the border situation flares up again , and if Bangladeshi lives come under threat or are lost , the sentiment could change . 
Zia 's description of Hasina as being '' subservient '' to India could be taken far more seriously then . 
Signs that India may be massing troops on the border are cause for concern . 
No one wants to tangle with India . 
But at the same time , pride in being Bangladeshi rides very high . 
But Bangladeshis would like their gratitude to be a matter of choice , not of compulsion . 
As early as March 1998 , even before he became the RSS chief , Sudarshan had vetoed Jaswant Singh 's nomination as finance minister . 
That was only the early skirmish . 
Unfortunately , the battlelines have been clearly drawn on economic reforms . 
They argue that withdrawal of the state from the economic process amounts to surrendering the country to big business and foreigners . 
And because they supposedly speak for the poor their voice gets heard more . 
The CSDS conference was the first attempt to make it heard . 
Attending were not only luminaries like M . 
They may not understand the meaning of liberalisation but understand well the meaning of government interference in their lives . 
Rickshawallahs talked about the problems they face trying to eke out a living in the face of constant harassment from officialdom and the police . 
Perplexed , the nuns come out in ones and twos . 
Why then this sudden tectonic shift ? 
The coming assembly election will not be defined otherwise . '' 
Earlier , Mahanta alleged a pact between the Congress and the ULFA to rig the polls . 
The Congress , of course , refuted the charges . 
From Tamil Nadu we heard 56 per cent say that their lives remained unchanged and 20 per cent that it had worsened . 
So does it make any difference who wins ? 
It is hard not to be cynical about the phase that Indian politics is passing through . 
Hard not to ask if there is any point in voting when our choice is between bad and worse . 
Jayalalitha has proved that she is not just corrupt but irresponsible as well . 
Remember the tantrums that brought down the previous Vajpayee government . 
'' The production plant in the cellar , now corroded , has many war tales to tell , '' remarks V . 
Presidency 's chemistry labs have contributed to heads as much as warheads . 
Fees are as low as Rs 1COMMA000 per semester , making the college much sought among bright students from economically backward families . 
Perhaps it is the will to excel in challenging circumstances that makes the college click . 
Controller of Examinations Dr K . 
For students who can not afford private tuitions , the teachers spend extra hours taking special classes . 
Last year , too , Presidency students came first in all the science subjects in Tamil Nadu . 
Presidency College is an example of the fact that quality education need not cost the moon . 
It is a monument to ability and effort , which are the qualities that make good scientists . 
Presidency 's nearest rival has a lot in common with it . 
Loyola , another Chennai college , was started in July 1925 by a group of Jesuits . 
Priests from the order still run it with religious dedication . 
Loyola has made computer education compulsory for all its students . 
Social work is also part of the Loyola student 's campus life . 
Specialised research institutes which are a part of Loyola include the Entomology Research Institute and the Loyola Institute of Frontier Energy . 
It offers seven undergraduate courses in the sciences and allied subjects , including one on visual communication . 
Stephen 's is one of the few colleges where the tutorial system actually works , where teachers pay individual attention to students . 
The first batch will be graduating this year . 
But the college does have a fully automated library and computer center and even a swimming pool . 
Some rival colleges , however , remain unconvinced . 
The NLSIU regularly offers consultancy services to lawyers and courts . 
Its governing body includes legal luminaries like the chief justice of India and many leading advocates of the Supreme Court and high courts . 
The trial is proceeding so slowly that even the process of recording evidence is nowhere near complete . 
Of the 170 witnesses , only four have given evidence so far . 
Nor have they been affected by the public importance of the case . 
When implemented they should reduce the period of a civil trial to less than a year . 
Here , the problem is more complicated so an expert committee has been appointed to suggest changes . 
So can we hope to see real change in the justice system soon ? 
'' They had seen such things in Bihar and think this is the way ministers should function , '' Marandi says wryly . 
On the rebound , she went to the Congress . 
Today she 's the leader of a small gang of seven MPs in the Lok Sabha whose allegiance she claims to steer . 
Even this claim taxes credibility . 
And Panja is quietly working on a new enrolment drive for the party , for a change of leadership before July 21 . 
Wildlife experts , NGOs and forest officials are vehemently opposing the project . 
And not without reason . 
The trains on the line routinely run over animals that stray onto the tracks . 
In Mahananda , Garumara and Jaldapara , the train tracks also pass through rhinoceros and bison corridors . 
As a result , these animals often find themselves face to face with a train . 
Since 1992 , at least 13 elephants and a rhinoceros have been run over . 
'' What will happen when they run a Rajdhani ? '' 
A provincial pageantry instead of national purposefulness ? 
Really , a classical case of bungling before the beginning . 
In short , the plot should be subordinated to the setting . 
The bottle has to last all night , unless San Miguel is on promotion . 
It 's not enough to be lucky , but also to look Lucki . 
Such a law will , therefore , not stand constitutional scrutiny . 
The Centre may have '' barked '' Jayalalitha into submission but her onslaught shows that its flanks are not guarded with constitutional power . 
This is the Jinnah House or No . 
That too at a time when what is required is a clinical approach that is not weighed down by historical sentimentalism . 
National exceptionalism doesn ` t dissolve in supranational idealism . 
The alternative to peace is not war but pragmatism . 
India and Pakistan can not be equal partners , for they are incompatible as nation states . 
Whatever may be its imperfections , India is an evolved democracy with the institutions of civil society strongly in place . 
And the lurking enemy is a prerequisite for any supreme leadership . 
So Jayalalitha can trust nobody , she doesn ` t have to explain anything to anybody but herself . 
But supreme leaders don ` t punish themselves . 
That privilege belongs to the masses . 
They are Indian fashion 's guns for hire . 
Versace , Carmen Marc Volvo and global image management consultancies are eager to hire their sewing machines . 
Reputed and lesser known , these are the Indian designers who undertake design and embroidery work for some of the most enviable international labels . 
Badal retorted by calling Singh a political minion and saying those living in glass houses shouldn ` t throw stones . 
Now Singh 's royal background is being dug into , and there has been talk of his '' palaces and pleasures '' . 
The state is reeling under drought and he has appealed to the Centre for relief . 
However , he himself remains a few notches above austerity . 
A source close to Krishna says '' he has a taste for the elegant things in life '' . 
Investigations exposed the usual tale of bribery , chicanery and corruption . 
This kind of thing happens too often for foreign investors to be madly enthusiastic about our wondrous country . 
If it were on the road to completion we could at least be cheerful . 
So we remember you Dr Manmohan Singh but we remember you with gloom gathering around us . 
After the 1857 War of Independence , the andaman Islands served as a convict settlement colony for the British Raj . 
The sea lanes are vital for India 's energy security as it is also looking for oil and gas supplies from Myanmar and Vietnam . 
The ANC gives the country the opportunity to defend well away from our coastline . 
Personally for the prime-minister prime minister , it must be a moment of existential revelation . 
To some extent , he may have been let down by situations . 
But that can not be the whole truth . 
Many may feel that they have been let down by him as well . 
He continues to be the most popular politician in India . 
Larger than his party , Vajpayee has that image of not being subordinated to realpolitik . 
That Vajpayee looks so remote from today 's Vajpayee . 
This is more than his personal loss . 
That the degree of government control is inversely proportional to the efficiency of an FI is evident from the performance of ICICI . 
The government stake in it is the least of the three big FIs and its ratio of NPAs to loans is the lowest . 
Ironically , the poor performance of UTI and IFCI is being taken as an excuse to unleash babus into the boardrooms of FIs . 
UTI already has a bureaucrat as its head . 
And IDBI , which has been headless for seven months now , may also have a bureaucrat as its chairman . 
But this cure is worse than the disease . 
'' We have elephants from as far away as south Bengal . '' 
That 's how Tarzan landed up here . 
Six years ago , he was rescued from a ditch in a tea garden in Assam . 
Pickers heard a calf crying all night and contacted the orphanage . 
Torsharani , Tarzan 's mate , was similarly rescued and brought to the orphanage . 
'' He 's only seven and he 's already over 7 ft tall . '' 
The Privileges Committee of the Lok Sabha also issued notice to the police officers to appear before it in Parliament . 
Muthukaruppan , who took over after Jayalalitha 's appointment as chief minister , is allegedly the brain behind the surprise arrest of Karunanidhi . 
Soon after the incident , the Union Government had given a directive to the state Government to take action against the police officers . 
So the requisitioning order was arguably interpreted in Fort St George as retaliatory . 
When the Punjab chief minister says Chandigarh should be part of Punjab is it an antinational demand ? '' 
Kaushal 's defense of the Naga demand was drowned in the usual parliamentary interruptions . 
His arguments were convincing . 
But they had come a little too late and had few takers . 
The Naga leaders took the bad news in their stride . 
The NSCN leaders appreciated the fact that at least this time round , the Government had agreed in principle to its demand . 
It could not honor its commitment because of extraneous reasons . 
The Government , of course , could not refrain from making an announcement . 
It had to restore normalcy in Manipur . 
'' In the talks in Amsterdam , nothing has been finalized on the proposal raised from the Indian side . 
The necessity of keeping the rampant activities of the Indian armed-forces armed forces under effective control was first and foremost . 
Of course , both sides believed that better understanding could certainly be arrived at in the course of talks . 
There is practically no point in the Government making any announcement beyond this understanding . '' 
It dubbed any statement or declaration made by the Home Ministry as unfounded and unacceptable to the Nagas . 
The Naga response confused the Northeastern states . 
Was it the end of peace in the region ? 
Fears of NSCN 's return to violence worried Manipur 's leaders the most . 
'' Elections should not be held soon , '' says former chief minister Radha Binod Koijam . 
In India we are more democratic about these things one has to work your way up almost from the peon upwards . 
Triggered by the boom in public issues , UTI clearly was drawn in by the euphoria on equity . 
Theoretically , UTI could have sold off all or a large part of its RIL holdings and made a killing . 
It was not Stephen Hawking who was objecting . 
Not that astrology is a gaping lacuna in the Indian education system . 
The problem is with the tone of the protest . 
And the organization spearheading it is known for its obsession with redundant causes . 
The end of science and scientific temper . 
Really , the protest industry has a habit of institutionalising the peripheral . 
The most serious problem faced by the Salar Jung in the past has been the theft of priceless objects . 
Security is now in the hands of the Central Industrial Security Force . 
'' We now have a well maintained inventory , '' says director A . 
Most museum managers attribute their shortcomings to a paucity of funds . 
It was amoral , unflinching , imperious and made a virtue of expediency . 
It was the idiom of ruthlessness that was personified by Indira Gandhi . 
Nearly 17 years after her death , the memory of Indira is intact in the popular imagination . 
The choice doesn ` t stem from longevity of tenure alone . 
History isn ` t assessed either in a vacuum or on the strength of moral absolutes . 
It is entirely a function of the present . 
Indira wasn ` t about ideology . 
It was entirely an instrument of control . 
From the treasury to the judiciary and from cm to dm she stood for personalised autarchy . 
Autonomy , today 's buzzword , didn ` t exist in her lexicon . 
She didn ` t care to '' manage '' contradictions , only manipulate them when expedient and suppress them when timely . 
She would use Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale to outflank the Akalis and trigger Operation Bluestar when he got out of hand . 
She had the ability to keep friends and foes alike in a state of permanent anticipation . 
The women were selling the game brought home by their hunter husbands . 
It seemed strange coming from a man belonging to a family of hunters . 
But Choudhury 's interest in wildlife has always been of another kind . 
After writing impassioned essays on the environment for his college magazine Choudhury started writing seriously in 1977 . 
He wrote in the local dailies and conducted baseline surveys in the Bordoibam Bird Sanctuary and the East Karbi Anglong Sanctuary . 
'' Today , with access to the Internet , even my home is like a laboratory , '' says Choudhury . 
His involvement with different organizations also helped enlarge the scope of his efforts . 
Choudhury 's travels have enabled him to act the good samaritan in other ways too . 
Choudhury persuaded Rongphar to give up hunting and got him a job with the Forest Department . 
Another interesting encounter was with the priest of the Lumpo Gompha in Tawang , Arunachal Pradesh . 
Some of Choudhury 's enthusiasm rubbed on Lama Pema , the priest , and today his posters adorn the walls of the monastery . 
Pema , an artist himself , now paints birds and animals to educate villagers about their surroundings . 
Choudhury has to his credit some authoritative works on the wilds of the Northeast . 
He will talk peace with the nasty neighbor but he will crush crossborder jehadis . 
He wants to eliminate poverty from this country and he wants the nasty neighborhood leader to eliminate poverty from his country . 
And , he is serious , a rapid action force will ensure that next year is the '' implementation year '' . 
An action force driven by leadership vision . 
Don ` t worry , you will have more of it on August 15 2002 . 
The day after the DMK 's shirtless display of agony in Parliament the national headlines were full of shock . 
As if it was the first dramatic performance of Dravidian politics . 
Maybe first time inside Parliament . 
Much of the ground work for the project is done . 
The Cabinet has also approved tolling of all national highways and legal wrangles in land acquisition have been sorted by amending relevant laws . 
But national highways account for just 2 per cent of total roads in India . 
And it is in improving the state highways and smaller roads that Khanduri 's skills will be put to the test . 
Having inherited the vision and the means , Khanduri has to bulldoze when his way to implementation . 
For a state disfigured by a decade of violence , rights violation in Kashmir is beginning to approach the manic radicalism of the Taliban . 
Militants , however , deny the charge . 
'' At present , our objective is to secede from India . '' 
Those efforts had come to a naught . 
It 's rare to find A bigger misfit between the beliefs of a minister and the demands of his ministry . 
Sharad Yadav and the Civil Aviation Ministry are just not made for each other . 
It 's a serious charge and one that implies an ailing psu is being wilfully kept sick to benefit competition . 
Two have been inducted in May this year . 
The airlines fleet shrunk to just 23 , before two planes were inducted this year . 
Besides , a report by the Planning Commission and the Export Import Policy for 2001 has also underlined the need for amendment . 
That the ministry has been bypassed is evident . 
If changing laws is too radical a step , Jatiya could take simple steps like changing archaic rules in the Factories Act . 
The present law makes it mandatory to provide drinking water in earthen pots , while making the installation of a water cooler illegal . 
But Jatiya 's vision falls short of even these baby steps . 
Jaitley is also ready with sweeping changes in property laws and those related to consumer courts , accident claims and land acquisition . 
Parliament is another source of delay . 
The amended CPC hasn ` t even been discussed in Parliament as the standing committee hasn ` t given its report yet . 
But all this hasn ` t deterred Jaitley . 
'' A minister 's job is to provide a vision and lead from the front , '' he says . 
That 's a claim not often heard these days . 
And then he has his own pop album . 
He 's lucky he met Lucky . 
Adapted from Herb Gardner 's I 'm Not Rappaport , the play has many firsts . 
This is the Sholay of all plays . '' 
When the debate becomes about education and not politics we might see that '' saffronisation '' is the least of our problems . 
If journalism is the pursuit of truth , the Tehelka tapes have captured the naked truth . 
And if every method is acceptable to reach the truth , those tapes have no doubt taught Indian journalism one or two morality lessons . 
Then , the merciless hidden camera , journalism 's risky romance , was worth the truth . 
If journalism requires an unwritten code of ethics , only journalists , no one else , are qualified to enforce it . 
The investigative spirit of the Tehelka camera has gone beyond the limits of responsibility . 
The majority of pieces in the collection show the aesthetic vestiges of the Mughal legacy . 
What you 'll see is but a small sample of it . '' 
She recalls experiencing '' various levels of excitement '' as she spent four days in the vault weighing , measuring and documenting the jewels . 
Initially not many took the rumors of Mahanta 's alleged second marriage seriously . 
'' This is a political conspiracy by the Congress to jeopardise my political and family life , '' Mahanta told India Today . 
'' I lead a happy family life with my wife and three children . '' 
Wife Jayashree Goswami , an ambitious politician and former Rajya Sabha member , gives her husband a clean chit . 
Over the years , his image has taken a beating . 
The truth will emerge soon . '' 
Even if he is elected president again , Mahanta will find it hard to lead the party . 
His father Devakanta Mahanta was quoted as saying , '' How will Prafulla face the masses again ? 
It 's up to him to clear his name . '' 
At the same time , another birdwatcher , Sandip Brahmbhatt , also approached the court . 
Padhya and Brahmbhatt , who painstakingly gathered facts on the lake , produced satellite pictures that showed the presence of a lake . 
The judgement has now brought into focus the dubious role of government agencies like the Forest Department and urban development authorities . 
'' Most of the NGOs proved to be nothing but paper tigers , '' says the campaigner . 
For one , he is a chief minister who has not won a popular election . 
With warring BJP factions in Uttaranchal failing to agree on any single candidate , the ubiquitous party high command stepped in . 
But in nearly 10 months in office , Swami has little to show by way of governance . 
His unconventional ways have amused many but rattled his party leadership . 
At the moment , the septuagenarian does not inspire confidence . 
As chief minister , his style and schedules are unique . 
Complainants even get to meet him . 
When Swami is unusually busy , he makes sure one of his officers is deputed . 
Most visitors come away with the feeling they have got a fair deal . 
A Congress MLA , Indira Hridiyesh recently went on record that no Congress chief minister had been as helpful to her as Swami was . 
Swami has good links with almost all parties . 
So the onus of managing finances remains with the actors who have come to rely heavily on sponsorships . 
But we had no money to support them till a corporate finally bailed us out . '' 
But the new tribe is dismissive . 
Its elaborate probe into defense deals was holding up arms purchases , he declared . 
'' Too many ministry files are lying with the commission . '' 
The Defence Ministry was obliged to deny that the delay was affecting its purchases . 
The NDA 's complaint about the slow progress has not gone well with lawyers and the commission either . 
He is confident that the panel would complete its work by November 25 . 
The two commissions led by Justice J . 
The Government , however , sees no specific links between the spycam revelations and the defense deals . 
Once the hearings are made public , Fernandes and his friends will have less to gripe about . 
For the moment , it is turning out to be a case of justice delayed and political gains denied for the Samata chief . 
The relationship between information technology and telecom is that of the soul and body . 
If we are to ensure India 's global dominance in information technology , we have to develop telecommunications at super speed . 
That is my immediate task . 
The disinvestment process will be expedited . 
I will see to it that the disinvestment in both the VSNL and the MTNL happens as soon as possible . 
They began to walk back when they heard the second blast . 
This time it was the South Tower that was on fire . 
A second plane had struck and Rekhi was beginning to panic . 
The train 's departure had already been aborted but Rekhi did not know that . 
He ran towards the towering inferno looking for his wife amid a confused , chaotic and terrified mass . 
He was stuck in the WTC complex when the South Tower began to crumble some 45 minutes later . 
He began to run , part of a concourse of humanity rushing away from the crashing steel , concrete and balls of fire . 
'' I saw somebody jump from God knows which floor . 
Bodies were flying like pinballs . '' 
Across America , the reaction was swift . 
In city after city , the downtown areas were cleared out . 
Schools ended early , people drove home . 
They were distraught , searching for answers . 
Simmering deep within was a rage for revenge . 
The VOX pops on radio stations and TV channels were seething . 
Also , they tend to group together . 
Bin Laden 's International Islamic Front for Jehad against the US and Israel brings together nearly a dozen Islamic terrorist groups . 
Terrorism is the core component of Pakistan 's proxy war against India . 
Even though the international law gives us the right of active defense against Pakistan , we have not exercised it even once . 
Sadly , our political leadership lacks the determination to use the capability of our intelligence agencies in national interests , irrespective of international pressures . 
Ballimaran Street in Delhi 's Chandni Chowk is a squalid , narrow lane only wide enough for a small car . 
Yet , a seamless traffic of men , beasts and old , rickety rickshaws push through it every day . 
The only relief is Babu Ram Churiwala 's bangle shop . 
It 's a color riot . 
All the hues of the rainbow spill over on to the gray street from the little shop , no more than 4 ft wide . 
In his spotless white kurta , he looks the stereotype prosperous shopkeeper . 
Every day , his wife , three daughters and son crowd into a room in his ancestral house in Old Delhi and make bangles . 
'' Churis are back in vogue , '' says Ram . 
Today 's teenager does not mind wearing it with her denim jeans . '' 
He thinks it is necessary to give his bangles nicknames and constantly innovate to keep customers happy . 
He even has '' blood sugar bangles '' bearing stones with magnetic properties and meant to be worn against the pulse . 
As chief of intelligence in the National Guard , I had been warned but couldn ` t save many family members and friends . 
I arrived in Delhi in 1992 and I don ` t think I 'll be going home any time soon . 
Sometimes these days I think I will go mad . 
Speak to any woman who has known the fulfilment that a career brings , and she will tell you she understands me . 
We were a rich family with four houses in Afghanistan . 
For almost five years till April 1992 , I worked as an accountant with the Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce in Kabul . 
I 've worked from the age of 17 , a year after I got married . 
For nine years now I have been unemployed . 
I worry about my education going to waste . 
And I wonder about my country 's future . 
How do I explain to you the extent of freedom that we women had in Afghanistan ? 
I have never known the burqa . 
Although families did not encourage it , young people were known to fall in love and even date . 
There were parties all the time , with music and dancing , just the way they are in India . 
That poor young bride 's hands were chopped off as punishment by the Taliban . 
The mujahideen came to power in April 1992 , and I came to India that December . 
But even those intervening months of strictures were depressing . 
We women had to cover our heads with dupattas if we wanted to go to work . 
There were explosions all around . 
The men who had come from Pakistan would trouble women on the streets , go into offices and houses and misbehave . 
Since women are not allowed to work , female doctors can ` t practise . 
But a woman is not allowed to go to a male doctor when she is ill . 
What are her choices ? 
See a woman doctor , if she is lucky to have one as a neighbor , or die . 
No one cares anyway . 
The thought had touched Chandra 's heart and signalled a mission that is continuing throughout his life . 
Chandra 's passion stems from his concern about the dearth of voluntary donors in government hospitals . 
Sixty per cent of this is used by developed countries , which comprise only 17 per cent of the world 's population . 
And in 43 per cent of the cases , the blood is not tested for transmissible diseases . 
Chandra is in touch with health authorities in every state , and has sought government support for his campaign . 
Last fortnight , it looked as if the front could overwhelm the Taliban 's army even before the big war . 
By last week , however , the front had lost much of its cockiness . 
The Taliban quickly regained lost ground and showed it could hold its own . 
It became apparent that without military intervention by the US and its allies , the front would not be able to defeat the Taliban . 
Its leaders softened their tone towards a US action . 
Known for his distant style of functioning , he was often at a loss to connect with either party workers or the media . 
As a result , he failed to portray even his achievements to his advantage . 
It is now for Modi to undertake an exercise in damage control for the BJP . 
And whatever his plans , he will have to set them in motion quickly . 
Nobody raised an eyebrow . 
Some girls even wore really short skirts . 
Our tailors would get albums from Paris and style clothes along those lines . 
So today , a husband and wife in my country can not leave home without their nikahnama . 
A brother and sister had better carry their passports . 
The moral police could ask for proof any time . 
A refugee who recently left Afghanistan told us the tragic story of a wedding held just a few months back . 
The woman believed that giving blood would make her husband impotent . 
But first he had to get his own facts right . 
So he began to gather data on the demand and availability of blood in the country and the problems the banks faced . 
The statistics , he found , didn ` t make for a healthy graph . 
Quoting WHO , Chandra says the total collection of blood worldwide is seven million units per year . 
Chandra has no illusions . 
He knows convincing people will take time . 
He talks of how his mother initially had reservations about his donating blood . 
But she came around when he explained the scarcity of pure blood . 
A scarcity he is determined to overcome . 
Uma Bharati ducks into the cockpit . 
Her fear of flying has forced her to travel in the cockpits of domestic airliners on several occasions . 
Singh later donated all the silver ingots , worth Rs 6.5 lakh , to charity but kept the sword . 
Guess that 'll come in handy for the up polls . 
It wants to be a key player in any future regime in Afghanistan . 
So Abdullah wants to project to the world that its influence is not just restricted to certain pockets in northern Afghanistan . 
But Khan is still the most experienced commander in Masood 's army and after his death it was decided he was the best choice . 
His lack of political ambition also makes it easier for the front to integrate into any power structure that emerges after the war . 
What do you think is its game plan ? 
The current situation was created by Pakistan . 
Modi on his part was more restrained . 
'' Keshubhai is still the driver of the BJP chariot , '' he said . 
Obviously , this was the way out of the red . 
These shifts in human attitudes aren ` t captured by military surveillance . 
Sushmita Bandopadhyay , a Kolkata girl , fell in love and got married to an Afghan moneylender , Jaanbaz Khan . 
Within 90 days of appointing Hassan as army chief , Bhutto had him removed . 
The reshuffles by themselves may not suffice . 
It 's a long way from Kathputli Colony to the Royal Mile in Edinburgh . 
For puppeteer Bala Bhatt it 's the distance between two worlds . 
Having recently performed in that historic Scottish city and in Sicily , Bhatt has returned to the squalor he calls home . 
Over the past four decades , hundreds of street performers from across the country have made this place their home . 
Today , about 800 such families live here . 
Many have participated in festivals of India and other cultural roadshows abroad . 
If it 's Ram Karan Bhopa you want , try his mobile . 
This musician from Rajasthan plays a folk instrument called the ravanhatha . 
He has performed in the US , the UK , France and other countries . 
Here in India , he arranges shows for private gatherings . 
But work , he says , is sporadic and the money is never enough . 
'' Friends from abroad are shocked when they visit us , '' he adds . 
'' They tell us , ' We thought you 'd be rich . 
Doesn ` t the government help you ? ' '' 
'' The world knows this address , '' says magician Aziz Khan . 
'' Besides , this is a central location . 
If we were to shift to the places the Government has in mind , most of our earnings would be spent on conveyance . '' 
Press photographers are met with demands for '' money before you shoot '' . 
Journalists encounter scuffles among artistes , with each wanting to be interviewed . 
When they are unmasked , it spoils things for those of us who are honest . '' 
But they are rarely alone in their struggle . 
Sarthi , an NGO that works here , assists the Bhoole Bisre Kalakar Cooperative Industrial Production Society registered in 1978 . 
The society , among other things , runs a workshop specialising in traditional Rajasthani wood carvings . 
The demand for their furniture is drying up , says Manager Radhey Shyam , because '' our designs have become outdated '' . 
Now that the court cases have been settled , the workers are going at it hammer and tongs , so to say . 
As for resources , with help from devotees the temple is never short . 
Like one who came all the way from Punjab , volunteering to fix new iron railings around the temple compound . 
Once the railings are in place and the kitchen ready , the faithful may think of something more ingenious to build in future . 
If they can ` t , they might well decide to pull down the kitchen and build it afresh . 
For in Chatia , mere praying for the Lord 's return is not good enough . 
That 's good news for the masons in the immediate vicinity , to say the least . 
The party always had its reserves of musclemen and dons but none of the mobocrats would share a public podium with leaders like Basu . 
'' Once out of power , they can ` t spread terror on polling day , '' she says . 
Shivappa was a frontrunner in the election to the post of the Opposition leader in the Assembly last October but was outwitted by Shettar . 
BJP spokesman M . 
'' Ideally it should have been referred to the Disciplinary Committee within three months , '' says Shivappa . 
'' Look at the condition of the party , '' complains Tunga . 
I am not aware who they were trying to kill . 
There has been no attempt on my life and I don ` t know any of the shooters . '' 
The Thai police believe large stakes in a major arms smuggling and supply racket could be the cause . 
It now transpires that Dawood Ibrahim 's aide Chhota Shakeel had been visiting Bangkok regularly for three months . 
A senior Thai police official said , '' It was a cakewalk for us . 
The criminals left behind lots of evidence . 
He arrived in January on a tourist visa valid for three months . 
Rajan may also be questioned on the Piloo Khan murder case . 
Khan , a drug peddler who played a role in the Mumbai blasts of 1993 , was killed in Bangkok in 1994 . 
This might be the first step towards his extradition to India . 
Again , that could be part of Rajan 's design . 
In court , Rajan apparently told waiting mediapersons , '' I want to go back to India to surrender . '' 
It was a playground for the Great Game . 
Today , the New Great Game is afoot . 
Of the three old contestants , the latecomer , China , seems set to walk away with the prize . 
It 's not just a diplomatic triumph it could score though . 
The highways of Urumchi and Turfan will be its New Silk Route . 
Outlaw regimes were tapped . 
The final weapon was trade . 
Ancient border posts were reopened . 
Today , of Xinjiang 's $ 1.3 billion exports , half are to neighbouring countries . 
Soon a rail network will connect Shanghai to Amsterdam . 
By giving them a stake in stability , China holds its neighbors are unlikely to ever back Uyghur terrorism . 
Trade as Foreign Policy With the exception of Russia , everybody in the Shanghai Five is into the New Silk Route . 
Leave the border disputes to the next generation . '' 
That really is the lesson for India , whose bilateral trade with China is valued at an abysmal $ 2 billion . 
Will Union Law Minister Arun Jaitley please read it ? 
Evil will continue to triumph over good and we only have to glance around us to see that it already does . 
Remember that 59 innocent people lost their lives because the cinema 's management was criminally negligent ? 
Television cameras should be allowed in the courtroom so that we know exactly whom to blame for delays . 
A special Doordarshan channel should be dedicated to this purpose . 
Lawyers who cause needless delays should be debarred . 
By taking only these small steps we could have a justice system that could make all the difference . 
The coalition he leads is larger than ever but relatively stable . 
He has only to implement these recommendations . 
The negotiations between the Tamil Nadu Government and Veerappan are a strange intercourse . 
The outlaw dictates the terms . 
He decides who will represent the statewhether it be his favorite journalist or , more recently , '' Tamil nationalist '' advocates . 
The logical conclusion of this process will be Veerappan 's demand that India speak to him through the LTTE . 
Film star Rajkumar has been in captivity for over two months now . 
Sudarshan and Parekh represent two extreme responses to the growing menace of multiculturalism . 
Consequently , until the cultural ethos surrounding nationhood is redefined , the minorities remain alienated from the nation and the flag . 
Still others have openly advocated the breakup of both Britain and India . 
They are invitations for a xenophobic backlash . 
Every nation has a set of ordinary decencies that defines its nationhood . 
Suspicions that certain ministers and sundry lobbyists are only too keen on private deals have not helped . 
These obstacles are not new . 
Indeed , they have been around since the time of P . 
Its merits and demerits , and those of its potential suitors , have been the subject of obviously slanted newspaper reports for months now . 
Added to that have been contradictory statements from within the Union Cabinet . 
A process as monumental as privatisation has been left to the atmosphere of a vegetable bazaar . 
Shourie 's approach solves many problems . 
Inviting open offers , which can be bettered by other candidates within a specific period , will ensure transparency . 
Decades after pioneering them , the US may suddenly find fault with big dams but there 's hardly an international moratorium on them . 
China 's Three Gorges project is a case in point . 
Of course , there has been no scope for protest in China . 
That Narmada has been openly argued for and against in India lends it a certain social sanctity . 
Situated near the river bank , its present market value is estimated to be over Rs 400 crore . 
The British certainly had an eye for location . 
However , the current state of BIC is bad enough to disrupt their eternal peace . 
The company is without any working capital since . 
That 's the typical defensive endgame of managers of failed PSUs . 
BIC 's spinning and weaving mills are fairly modern , having been imported in the first flush of the 1981 nationalisation . 
But machines alone do not a successful business make . 
It still needs capital , men and a vision . 
'' I am happy , '' she whispered to anyone who cared to listen . 
Political promises , such as they are , almost never materialise . 
Once Banita and Phanas faded from the media glare , it was down to scratching out a livelihood in the dusty graveyard district . 
Politics plays strange tricks . 
And he did . 
Critics say that Das is resorting to gimmicks to corner publicity . 
'' What purpose does the marriage serve ? '' 
'' Banita will stay poor as ever . '' 
The '' newly weds '' sit in silence . 
The future confronts them . 
They don ` t have money and their mud house is on the verge of collapse . 
But one frugal feast and a great divide has been bridged . 
Living for small mercies , Banita can finally afford a smile . 
Sitaram Kesri must have been the loneliest of Congressmen . 
His evolutionary tale ran parallel to the life and times of his party , the most defining political force of 20th century India . 
Something that can be said about Kesri too . 
The keeper of over Rs 10COMMA000 crore deserved it . 
Still , the nation will not remember Kesri for his symbolism . 
He has immortalised himself by parading his ambition , rather , his dream . 
There was a spartan charm about the last Congressman in a Gandhi topi . 
He was the one who brought Manmohan Singh , the liberalisation pioneer , to the Congress Working Committee . 
Yet another feature of the package relates the incentive to the turnover of spares produced in the factory . 
Inspired by it , MUL is raising labor productivity in novel ways . 
That saves power , time , labour and cost . 
Suzuki Chairman O . 
The answers aren ` t flattering and point to a larger malaise at the very top . 
However , with Kalyan 's expulsion from the BJP , the Gupta option was blessed with instant obsolescence . 
Was it fair of the leadership to burden Rajnath with so horrific an inheritance and so daunting a challenge ? 
The problem stems from Vajpayee 's inexplicable dependence on state Urban Development Minister Lalji Tandon . 
That a political nobody exploited his access to Race Course Road to enhance his stature is understandable . 
Flattery and cronyism are occupational hazards of any prime-minister prime minister and Vajpayee isn ` t an exception . 
The mess in up should warn him against allowing vanity to get the better of his political judgment . 
He is too tall a leader to let insecurity and vengeful conduct to sully his record . 
It 's a very familiar murmuring of discontent , heard only in the corridors of bureaucratic power . 
It 's there whenever an official reshuffle is carried out to the satisfaction of a few and the disappointment of many . 
One official 's promotion is invariably seen as another 's denied due . 
Perhaps it 's time the complaint was dissected in public , time to ask questions . 
Should seniority alone be the criterion in promotion ? 
Should the bureaucracy be independent of the competitive spirit ? 
Why can ` t the finest be the boss ? 
The questions are relevant in this area because they have already become redundant in other areas of management . 
It 's the age of the fittest , not the eldest . 
Nothing counts except the age of experience . 
There is no internal mechanism to put the most competent on the fast track . 
Many smart officers don ` t reach the top because they happen to be junior to officers who need not be competent . 
Maybe , the government should emulate the private sector in this regard . 
Privatisation is worth trying out within the government services too , at least in the promotion of officers . 
India has a bloated bureaucracy , and a major part of it is eminently disposable . 
For the moment , see that the best is not allowed to rot . 
Share the Blues Even a depressed market holds cheery prospects for the long term 
Blue has been turning red on the Indian stock markets this past fortnight . 
The share prices of a slew of India 's bluest chip companies have fallen to their lowest levels in the almost half a decade . 
The plunge is across the board . 
A share of Tata Tea is available for Rs 180 or so ; only this February the price was Rs 510 . 
The only exception are software shares , though even their growth trajectory has flattened . 
Three factors explain this unprecedented pounding of the high and mighty on Dalal Street . 
The stock market as a whole has been depressed and volatile . 
At under 3COMMA800 , the Sensex is at its lowest level in 12 months . 
The economy itself seems to be falling into a slumber . 
Sales and production figures are sluggish and agriculture production may actually be lower than the previous year . 
Then there is the global contagion . 
Analysts believe the market has hit the bottom , even though , perhaps paradoxically , no one foresees an upturn soon . 
That will be as much a vote for the future of efficient and competitive Indian companies as for the economy as a whole . 
It 's also one way to turn the red into pink on the markets . 
DIFFERENT STROKES The Republicans and Democrats differ more in how they talk about foreign and strategic policy than in how they carry it out . 
This will also be true under a Gore or a Bush administration . 
But their actions are unlikely to differ very much . 
The campaign suggests two areas of contrast . 
On international nuclear issues , Bush has expressed strong opposition to the CTBT . 
The other contrast is on China , where Bush has staked out a much tougher position than Gore . 
We have narrowed down our differences considerably . 
So there will be no tectonic shifts . 
If Bush comes in , things may be marginally easier on the nuclear issue . 
If Gore wins , with the Congress being dominated by the Republicans , he will not be able to push through the CTBT . 
So we are likely to see a status quo on the nuclear front . 
We are no more being equated with Pakistan . 
Both candidates favor normal trade relations with China . 
But the differences in approach will probably be in the nuances and the emphasis . 
There is now a window of opportunity created to make up for the years of inertia . 
If Bush takes a presidential initiative and lifts the economic sanctions it would make a substantial difference . 
Their votes are expected to come in latest by November 17 . 
Even then , America seems headed for its worst constitutional crisis that could see results postponed till early January . 
As outgoing President Bill Clinton wryly observed , '' The American people have spoken . 
But we may have to wait awhile to determine what they said . '' 
Much of the chaos is because of the existing electoral system . 
A state 's number of electors equals the number it sends to the Senate and the House of Representatives . 
Florida , for instance , contributes 25 electors . 
To be voted President , a candidate needs to win more than 270 of the total 538 electors in the college . 
By the end of the bizarre week , even the world seemed to be on hold . 
Senior Indian policymakers flew into Washington DC during election week to touch base mainly with Bush 's Republican team on a range of issues . 
But they had to wait till the outcome of the results . 
India may be happier if the initial count is proved right and Bush emerges the winner . 
But since then he has made amends . 
It also claims that the matter was brought to the notice of the administration a few months ago but nothing had been done . 
The pujari of these ungainly temples , Doma Ram Sadhu , seems unconcerned about a likely furore . 
The Sikkim Government informed the Home Ministry that the draws were happenstance . 
The state has also decided to stop all computerised draws forthwith . 
Normally , there is little chance of the numbers being identical . 
According to software makers Grambls Consultancy , '' The numbers are generated using a '' random '' function . 
We have no control over it . '' 
The number of winners has also come down , especially in the southern states , where lotteries now have the biggest markets . 
'' I won ` t be surprised , given Martin 's track record , if most draws are fixed , '' charges Khurana . 
There are other facets to the intriguing Martin saga . 
Following raids on Congress MP M . 
Subba has been under a cloud for long . 
But certainly we have to think of the industry , since so many depend on it . '' 
But it 's time for the Government to take a long , hard look at the way the business is run . 
The Himachal study confirms this . 
Martin and his likes may be selling dreams to millions . 
The world was a lot simpler then . 
Meanwhile , HIL 's bottom line is shattered . 
Most states began buying malathion from firms other than HIL . 
So our fate is linked to public spending there . '' 
Perhaps she herself had not quite thought it out . 
Otherwise , why would she let hearsay and allegations fly rather recklessly ? 
Then in a crowning epitaph , she added , '' I will request the ministers concerned not to jeopardise investigations through public statements . '' 
No wonder , since this explosive press conference on July 24 , Jaitly has been in the eye of a storm . 
She was subjected to ridicule in the front pages of newspapers . 
It seems that '' good clinical practices '' and '' ethical conduct '' are unknown phrases at King Institute . 
The CPCSEA , which recently conducted an inspection of the institute stables , found the animals in pathetic conditions . 
Additional Director of Medical Education Dr V . 
But state Health Secretary L . 
Finally the Union government incorporated it as a PSU in 1980 . 
But it hardly solved the company 's problems . 
This is especially important now that the CBI has become adept at using the media as a lynch mob . 
The fact that it remains pretty much unchanged since the British Raj created it speaks for itself . 
Dr Bhanu , meanwhile , has gone underground . 
Every December 6 , India goes through a ritual . 
Parliament is disrupted by protests over the Ram temple issue . 
BJP MPs on one side and Left and Congress members across the floor shriek at each other . 
Reviving the great Ayodhya debate is certainly not top priority for the common Indian . 
Ayodhya has become the political equivalent of theater . 
Beyond the competitive emotionalism , it has to be recognised that it is , in essence , a legal issue . 
The land dispute is pending before the Allahabad high court , the agency that will hopefully settle matters . 
Slow as progress may be , a special sessions court is trying this case . 
For all its faults , the Indian juridical system has convicted even a former prime-minister prime minister for bribery . 
Give it time and it will do justice to Ayodhya as well . 
Till then keep Ram and Babar out of politics . 
Unfortunately , in faraway towns and villages and even among the less privileged in the metros , the post office retains its importance . 
Selling stamps and stationery , for instance , shouldn ` t be the sole preserve of state outlets . 
By allowing private shops , even the ubiquitous corner paanwallah , to hawk them , the government will save itself much money . 
That apart , postal infrastructure can be put to better use . 
The post office is already a rudimentary bank , unfortunately aimed only at the lower end of the market . 
What stops it from upgrading its facilities and competing with the local branch of the State Bank ? 
Further , as part of the planned Internet revolution , the Government hopes to set up a string of cyberkiosks across the Indian landscape . 
Instead of building afresh , why not just use the post office ? 
The preferred universities were Oxford or Cambridge . 
The civil service , of course , blossomed when the East India Company moved from the arena of commerce to governance . 
Today , that no longer holds . 
We are a federal democracy and our bureaucracy must be in conformity with this reality . 
The business of governance is still carried out by the patwari , the thanedar , the tehsildar and the state civil services . 
I gulp . 
There should be no shortage of good food . '' 
The idea of a vast expanse being conducive to thought and action probably goes back to Plato 's Academy in ancient Athens . 
'' The concept of the food court , '' an executive points out , '' is also rooted in Greek architecture . '' 
Simple living and high thinking may be a winning formula for an it powerhouse but even Infoscians are allowed their indulgences . 
Some 17COMMA000 cups of coffee and tea are consumed here every day . 
The Greek philosophers saw a synergy between physical exercise and mental exertion . 
To complete the health resort feeling , there 's a touch of Amsterdam to internal transport . 
If you 're not up to walking , you 're free to borrow any of the 130 Hercules MTX bicycles parked on the campus . 
It 's already 5 . 
Nor has she been bestowed with a political mandate and power a la Jayakar during the Indira Gandhi years . 
In the past few weeks , Infosys City has been inundated by visitors . 
Hindus can worship the Ram idol from behind barricades and after being frisked at three points . 
And , hey presto , Basu reached there too . 
In his frequent statewide peregrinations , the former chief minister is using the state Government 's helicopter free of charge by a simple ruse . 
In Behrampore , his flight companion was Finance Minister Asim Dasgupta . 
At a public meeting there , Dasgupta referred to Basu as the '' chief minister '' . 
This is despite a clear provision in the rule book that sitting cabinet members alone are entitled to a guard of honor . 
Now he visits the party office on Alimuddin Street regularly . 
Why shouldn ` t I be ? 
After all I haven ` t done anything wrong . 
Let me see how things move in the courts . 
He said it would be the biggest blunder of my life . 
Let them . 
Ageing and frail Win Chadha now faces trial in Delhi . 
Account operated by Egyptian Mounir Ahmed Wahba , Quattrocchi 's front man . 
His search for a watchdog has to move beyond the clerkdom of the Ministry of Programme Implementation . 
One option is to borrow from Rajiv Gandhi who , 15 years ago , institutionalised short cuts by setting up '' technology missions '' . 
Warts and all , history will remember these as successful efforts , especially in fields like telecom and oilseeds . 
Perhaps there is a case for creating similar transministerial agencies and seconding quality manpower to these . 
There is no point buying a Windows program and hope to run it on your manual typewriter . 
But is the threat really as big as it is made out to be ? 
Reliance Industries Ltd officials refused to comment , stating that fears of an attack are based only on hypothetical situations . 
Mumbai could be attacked as easily as Jamnagar , says a senior Reliance executive . 
Its the armed-forces armed forces perception , says Gujarats Industries Commissioner K . 
We dont have any comments on it . 
More important , the state is the gateway for oil imports from the Gulf . 
The navy says that the refineries and ports have added to its responsibilities . 
This will tie down precious resources that could be used elsewhere . 
A war with Pakistan is not the only time when the oil refineries and ports in Gujarat are in danger . 
Islamabads proxy war and terrorism are equally potent threats . 
The Coast Guard already has three stations at Vadinar , Okha and Porbandar but needs three more bases to ensure total protection . 
Beefing up the security in the wake of the threat perception would entail a huge expenditure . 
The Coast Guard has already acquired hovercraft to patrol the sensitive coastline . 
And a cruise gradually became an important part of the holiday itinerary . 
DWM has handled 20COMMA000 passengers since then . 
The potential demand has encouraged cruise companies to focus on India , a market they had ignored till now . 
Over 2COMMA000 passengers got on board for an incomparable experience . 
'' There are some tense moments but never any fear . 
She learns quickly , having scalped seven male Grandmasters in two years , including the formidable Russian Mihail Kobalija at Linares , Spain . 
Viji knows she could soon have company as an Indian WGM because teenagers Aarthie Ramaswamy and Koneru Humpy are now in the chase . 
If they are prosperous little towns today it is entirely due to tourism . 
The people usually manage to do the rest . 
Worse still , a campaign was launched to create misgivings about me in the minds of our minority brethren . '' 
And you would certainly not have allowed your home minister to announce proudly that the '' killers '' were dead . 
There are some taunts that disorient even the most unflappable of people . 
He demanded action against Govindacharya and it required the intervention of the big guns of the RSS to cool him down . 
So it was two years before Govindacharya was removed from the BJP leadership and banished on study leave . 
Last month it happened again . 
Confronted by headlines that his utterances on Ayodhya left '' Vajpayee unmasked '' , the prime-minister prime minister admitted being '' pained '' . 
Not that Vajpayee realised his Himalayan blunder instantly . 
He led the BJP campaigns in 1996 and 1998 when the building of a Ram temple figured in the manifesto . 
Equally strange is that Vajpayee opted for the written word over his natural preference for sound bites . 
The suggestion that the prime-minister prime minister was anticipating the Dharma Sansad 's ultimatum to the Government doesn ` t wash . 
The Government must be aware that the VHP is unlikely to press for temple construction on the disputed site at this juncture . 
It will probably demand the construction of some gates in an undisputed corner of Ayodhya . 
At best , Vajpayee could have told the VHP where to get off without undertaking a convoluted exercise in revisionism . 
This had less to do with politics than the social awkwardness of his dining table . 
Second , the mukhauta taunt touched a familiar raw nerve . 
Once again he hit back . 
This time pleasing those who won ` t ever vote BJP but leaving his party utterly confused and quite resentful . 
This was a reference to the perennial shortage of cigarettes in the socialist dreamland . 
On the second day of the millennium , Mother India may have heard similar complaints from citizens of Delhi and six other northern states . 
Those with long memories recalled that the power sector was among the first to be opened up to foreign investment . 
A decade has passed since ; for India it 's still darkness at dawn . 
So why isn ` t the generating potential of producers there servicing the rest of the country ? 
In theory India has a national grid ; in practice it has a national joke . 
Maybe that 's what they call black humor . 
History in the Faking Does the IHC believe in ' India 's tradition of scepticism ' ? 
Public discourse in India , it has often been lamented , prefers off the cuff rhetoric to intellectual argument . 
It is a disease even Nobel laureates are not immune from . 
He also attacked the political '' manipulation '' of history . 
Fair enough ; but keeping Sen company were Jyoti Basu and Buddhadev Bhattacharya , former and current communist chief ministers of West Bengal . 
If there was an irony lurking somewhere , it must have been lost on the sombre listeners . 
By its every nature history is interpretative and subjective . 
A contest of ideas and a certain debate and engagement can only enrich the subject . 
These profundities are of course beyond controversy . 
The gainers , like the losers , are a bunch of mediocre academics hankering after government privileges . 
It is an unedifying battle the truly enlightened would be wise to rise above . 
Whatever made Sen join it ? 
The opinion poll suggests that there is a very wide measure of acceptance of the prime-minister prime minister 's recent initiatives . 
Only in Gujarat , where the support for the BJP seems quite resounding , is there a measure of scepticism . 
That 's real progress . 
But he knew that for long years it would remain one of Indian aviation history 's most significant moments . 
The LCA would be only the second combat aircraft to be indigenously built and flown . 
But the delays raised serious doubts on whether by the time the LCA became fully operational the IAF would find use for them . 
With his left hand Kothiyal pushed the throttle gently forward . 
Above him , two Mirage 2000 fighters chased the LCA , taking pictures of the aircraft and monitoring its flight . 
In one of them sat Air Chief Marshal A . 
Fernandes was keen on calling the prime-minister prime minister on his mobile telephone as soon as the flight took off . 
But he decided to wait till it touched down safely . 
It makes almost nothing today , only packages some bulk drugs bought from the market as capsules or tablets . 
But the IDPL complexes , spread over Gurgaon near Delhi , Hyderabad and Rishikesh , will take your breath away for their sheer spread . 
Such impressive fixed assets stand in stark contrast to the company 's business profile and its bottom line . 
Today its share of the basic antibiotic market has fallen so low that it can safely be ignored in rounding off . 
However , the Government contends that Thackeray 's threats made it finally an issue not of law but of governance . 
So Bal Thackeray can not be above law . 
Someone has sent a message to Ajay Jadeja , but used a very strange medium indeed . 
The problems don ` t stop there . 
IDPL staff is not only surplus but possesses little or no relevant skill . 
Many employees are engaged in other jobs and come to the factory for an hour or so only to mark attendance . 
IDPL is an absolute stranger in the new marketplace . 
A solution perhaps lies in giving the employees a share in the sale proceeds of the company 's land and buildings . 
After the flight a confident Harinarayana said , '' The LCA is now a reality . 
We have demonstrated that we have the technology to build an extremely agile and contemporary fighter . '' 
His boss Aatre was quick to remind them of the difficult task that lay ahead . 
While the LCA 's first flight was a major morale booster there is still plenty to validate . 
In the next six months , the team plans to make several more flights to test the aircraft 's full capability . 
Another aircraft is almost ready and is expected to fly by June . 
In addition the Government had sanctioned the building of three more prototypes that would meet production level standards . 
In all these have to complete 1COMMA000 hours of flying before the aircraft becomes operational . 
They are now keeping their fingers firmly crossed that the LCA shouldn ` t become a white elephant . 
Apart from making it much lighter , there are less joints or rivets making it more reliable . 
No tangle of dials and switches . 
It was to be completed by 1997 but despite hand holding by foreign companies is yet to reach fruition . 
Foreign companies were consulted . 
ADE and NAL were the lead agencies . 
Plenty of work to be done . 
Engine The most worrying aspect of the project . 
The Gas Turbine Research Establishment was to indigenously develop the Kaveri engine to power the LCA . 
While general classifications exist , there is no particular mention of such a variety of mango tree . 
According to Paymaster , the tree had a radius of 35 ft and around 10 branches in 1916 when the book was written . 
Such records notwithstanding , the Parsis say that the knowledge about the tree has been handed down to them orally over generations . 
One of its branches , however , is trying to take root in a neighbouring farm which belongs to Vallibhai , a paddy farmer . 
If the tree '' walks '' in , Vallibhai 's paddy crop will be lost . 
A small farmer who fears a threat to his livelihood , he is making no bones of not wanting the tree to take root . 
In fact , he has been severing the extended branch every now and then . 
Some Parsis see this as a strange coincidence , coming at a time when the community itself is facing the threat of extinction . 
The Government maintains that there is no provision under the existing framework to afford protection to a tree . 
But as one Parsi argues , the mango tree is an unprecedented case that merits unique treatment . 
It is a tree that was meant to be timeless . 
By Labonita Ghosh When the police found him , Khokon Modok 's bloodied body was lying by the highway . 
That , in fact , there had not been a shootout at all . 
The next day , his body washed up on the banks of the Teesta river , 10 km away from the site . 
Limbu 's '' uncalled '' , it turned out , were a forest officer and a constable . 
The policeman later said he thought Limbu , all of 14 years old , was a wanted timber smuggler . 
Fake encounters , stray bullets , mistaken identity . 
Does the West Bengal Police really need another excuse to be trigger happy ? 
That 's what people are asking Chief Minister Buddhadev Bhattacharya . 
I 'll take care of that . '' 
Bhattacharya 's message was a clear order to the force to get tough with criminals . 
Calcuttans were outraged . 
Not everyone , though . 
Residents of Bhattacharya 's Jadavpur constituency welcomed the order . 
Unfortunately , an unflattering track record makes it difficult for people to side with the police . 
'' And who decides which person is a criminal ? '' 
Minister of State for Sports Shahnawaz Hussain thundered that he was answerable to Parliament . 
The board reminded him that Hussain did in fact send questions across to Secretary J . 
When BCCI President A . 
India 's next coach , he says , should come from overseas in keeping with world wide trends . 
Vision 2000 is about vision of a very different kind , the kind called myopia . 
'' We don ` t know why he said it , '' says Chairman Justice Mukul Gopal Mukherji . 
'' It could be to activate the police force rather than incite violence . 
We 've sought a clarification . '' 
And second , the police aren ` t the crack team everyone would like them to be . 
In reality , they rarely get time . 
Officers who run the academy have petitioned the Government for improvements . 
Ironically , about eight of these are conducted by the WBHRC itself . 
And not just some hardline dictates from the top . 
The party constitution provided for election of 12 members of the committee . 
As Yadav played out the dynasty number , Sonia 's managers frowned . 
Who was this new malcontent ? 
But Yadav was not a dissident cast in the mould of either the late Rajesh Pilot or the now subordinated Jitendra Prasada . 
He was the convener of the constitution review committee that had recommended it . 
Yadav 's reminiscence about Nehru 's democratic credentials irked Sonia 's managers . 
It would take two months to convene an AICC plenary session , a Sonia aide is quick to point out . 
In party circles Yadav 's defiance has sharpened the election versus selection debate . 
Selection is a conspiracy against change , they say . 
An election , they argue , would have brought to fore moneybags . 
They found comparisons with Indira 's conduct in1972 odious . 
'' Can any of the aspirants match Chandra Shekhar 's stature ? '' 
They underscore the futility of elections by citing the example of 1992 when all those who got elected had to resign . 
They do not see the selection process imposing any awesome responsibility on Sonia . 
Afghanistan and Pakistan constitute one contiguous and coordinated criminal enterprise based on drugs , smuggling and fanaticism . 
Any international move to tame the barbarians who rule Kabul and Kandahar can not be successful unless their Pakistani lifeline is cut off . 
Having nurtured a monster , Pakistan is no longer in a position to discard or control its monstrous creation . 
The Talibanisation of Pakistan 's elaborate network of madarsas is complete . 
Pakistani state patronage has created an army of some 80COMMA000 jehadi irregulars who have fought in Afghanistan and who are fishing for causes . 
Kashmir , Kosovo , Chechnya and the war against the northern opposition in Afghanistan fit the bill easily . 
Much more fundamental is a genetic problem that has impaired the political functioning of the inheritors of the late Ram Manohar Lohia 's mantle . 
No wonder the socialists are considered temperamentally disruptionist and a potential threat to any coalition government . 
To be fair , Fernandes is the honorable exception . 
Regardless of his colourful past , his conduct in the A . 
Does Maharashtra have excess power ? 
There are conflicting reports on this . 
Intriguingly , it 's also claimed the MSEB is buying from Enron by keeping a capacity of 1COMMA450 MW capacity idle . 
What 's not clear though is on what assumptions of demand increase are these projections based on . 
Why can ` t excess power be sold to other states ? 
I will try to strength coordination which was established by Kushabhau Thakreji . 
The RSS and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch have different perception and the BJP , as head of the NDA Government , has certain compulsions . 
The economic reform was only in its infancy then . 
The table has turned since . 
It is rapidly advancing into an information technology revolution and into the knowledge economy . '' 
For India , it was the single largest foreign investment . 
It was the best red salute that Vajpayee could have hoped to earn . 
When Krishna Deva Raya landed in Halim Perdana Kusuma Airport in Jakarta , a still bigger surprise was awaiting Vajpayee . 
Breaking protocol , President Abdurrahman Wahid of Indonesia was waiting at the foot of the aircraft steps to receive him . 
Why are they turning to India for a boost on the IT front ? 
India has a headstart in this exciting future economy because of its abundant resource of people who can write software and know English . 
It is a gift from Lord Macaulay which East Asia lacks . 
It reassured the hosts that India 's foreign policy does not waffle . 
The realisation of strength has worked on Vajpayee like power tonic . 
Indians are more familiar with Li as the former prime-minister prime minister of China . 
China launched a volley of harsh words against India in the UN and other fora . 
Apart from the prime-minister prime minister , he is meeting a large number of key Indian politicians , senior officials and leading businessmen . 
In Delhi he was feted by Indian parliamentarians and was slotted to meet Prime Minister A . 
After the mandatory visit to Agra , Li will fly to Bangalore to see the Infosys campus . 
Li maintained an inscrutable silence over the affair . 
Most of all for the goodwill that Li brings with him . 
Only last month the voltage frequency shot up to the levels where the tripping of Enron 's phase II power plant seemed a possibility . 
The latest one stems from a sudden rise in the cost of DPC 's power . 
Not surprisingly , that made MSEB broke which defaulted on its payments to DPC . 
'' So we chose to keep Enron waiting . '' 
The board had agreed to purchase 90 per cent of generated power . 
As it turns out , power scarcity was probably exaggerated . 
The PPA also stipulates that Enron 's power would be indexed to the dollar and oil prices . 
Fluctuations in these variables automatically resulted in an increase in the price of electricity . 
Since Bangaru Laxman was chosen the BJP chief last August , he has been faithfully parroting Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee . 
So faithfully that there is a growing impression both within and outside the party that the BJP and Vajpayee are synonymous . 
Besides , it also set up a panel headed by former Rajasthan chief minister Bhairon Singh Shekhawat to study the subject . 
Shettigar appears to have got the sequence wrong . 
From the party calling the shots , it 's the Government that is now setting the BJP agenda . 
We will crush it before it raises its head . '' 
Laxman hinted that this should be the norm not only for the BJP but the entire NDA . 
That 's another way of saying that for the BJP , the only voice that now matters is the voice of the leader . 
Quite a change for an organization that once claimed that a personality cult was the prerogative of the Congress . 
There is a quaint story about the time former prime ministers John Major and P . 
The story is probably apocryphal . 
This is not to suggest that the last two years of Bill Clinton 's administration were inimical to India . 
But history isn ` t always dictated by impersonal forces , as Marxists like to believe . 
The personal preferences of leaders do have a way of shaping events , even things as abstruse and grandiose as foreign policy . 
Not that there is even a whiff of India in the intellectual baggage that President George W . 
It is expected to engage China in a way that is ultimately beneficial to India . 
Finally , it is certain to be more uncompromising in countering the terrorist jehad that threatens civil society throughout Asia . 
Of course , these are early days , with many imponderables like the developments in Capitol Hill . 
But what sets conservative governments apart from their liberal or socialist counterparts is a disinclination to be infuriatingly preachy . 
Conservatives may be less agreeable socially but they know the world much better . 
This is his way of paving the way for eventual tripartite talks between India , Pakistan and Kashmir . 
So , sitting in distant Islamabad , Pakistan 's unelected Government has decided who should represent the Kashmiri people . 
A little like Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale deciding , in those long gone days , that he represented the Sikh community . 
Something like this is happening to Farooq Abdullah . 
As jammu 's legally elected chief minister you would think that he had some right to speak for the state . 
Tch , tch , very bad , very bad . 
In short , we are yet again allowing terrorism to triumph over democracy . 
More significantly , we still do not know what we are actually trying to achieve in Kashmir . 
If we did we could dictate the agenda and Pakistan would have to listen . 
There can be no peace process in Kashmir until the Government of India decides what it wants to achieve and how . 
Meanwhile , it would help our position considerably if we were seen to be improving our human rights record in the Valley . 
This is only the domestic dimension . 
Fine , but what are we going to do about it ? 
Are we going to talk to Pakistan directly ? 
Are we going to seek international mediation ? 
And , if we are going to do neither , what do we plan to do ? 
So far all that A . 
Then why are we allowing the Hurriyat delegation to go at all ? 
It is an absurd situation in which the Hurriyat delegation is yet another absurdity . 
Even if the Hurriyat leaders succeed in going , what do they hope to achieve ? 
Since they consider themselves Kashmiri and not Indian we can not demand answers from them . 
Can we have some answers please ? 
The fact is , turfing out Enron will do India great harm . 
A larger issue is at stake as well . 
One of India 's touted advantages over competitors such as China is its legal system . 
A contract has , or should have , a certain sanctity here . 
DPC uses naphtha as fuel for its phase I plant . 
This leaves it hostage to volatile oil prices . 
Since India restricts futures trading in petroleum , Dabhol is not at liberty to hedge . 
Next , MSEB buys no more than 60 per cent of Dabhol 's power . 
Economy of scale implies the more power the plant produces , the cheaper each unit will become . 
The PPA can be reconfigured to allow DPC to sell to other agencies as well . 
The solution lies in making the best of an imperfect deal , not in grandstanding . 
Chief Minister Buddhadev Bhattacharya is by all accounts a decent man but in no apparent control of communist cadre gone berserk . 
Cretinous and criminalised trade unionism is another headache . 
In the BJP decisions are not taken by any individual . 
To those unfamiliar with the situation in Kashmir it might seem as if we were fighting all of Allah 's armies . 
In fact , these are only different names for Pakistan 's pawn soldiers . 
This summer the Left Front faces its strongest challenge ever , making an uncorrupted election all the more vital . 
President 's rule , whatever Mamata may say , is not the answer . 
Once the stay is removed , the Centre plans to hasten the winding up of BGML . 
The workers mark attendance , and spend a few hours hanging out at the idle plants and the rusted cages . 
The famed township of gold wears an eerie look now . 
In 1987 , a decision was taken by the Union cabinet to phase out mining operations at such depths . 
In July 1993 the BIFR was appointed as the operating agency to prepare a scheme for revival rehabilitation of the company . 
The agency had submitted proposals in March 1994 , October 1996 and July 1997 . 
The July 1997 proposal envisaged a fresh infusion of about Rs 200 crore which the Centre rejected . 
It made the closure all the more difficult . 
Earlier the workers hoped for wage revisions , which would have augmented the VSS packet . 
Since 1992 , the employee strength has been brought down from 8 , 821 to 3 COMMA873 . 
However , the workers with an average age of 45 do not have much hope of finding a job . 
Even in the past , the domestic goldmines in India never had the potential for market intervention . 
Progress here has actually meant the arrival of western detritus . 
But Mutua Bahadur thinks he can change all that . 
For in these five years , Bahadur also began collecting cultural icons . 
Urged by Kapila Vatsyayan , the then Union additional education secretary who had come to see his collection , he christened it Mutua Museum . 
It has taken part in the restoration of defaced monuments and court mural paintings of Manipur . 
Besides , a living museum was established at Purul village in Senapati district to preserve the traditionally carved houses of the tribals . 
Trips to the back of beyond have fossilised the antiquarians personal life . 
Bahadur recalls an incident . 
Once a tribal chief threatened to kill him for wanting to know the meaning of a tribal work of art . 
The trek to the Imphal museum has been arduous . 
His father , a Burmese Army soldier who loved traveling , inculcated the spirit of adventure in his son . 
Though Bahadur never completed his graduation , he is now an examiner for awarding PhDs in Manipuri culture at Manipur University . 
Truth , enthusiasm and discipline are the driving forces that motivate Bahadur . 
In a world of neglect and uncertainty its nice to believe someones still in charge of the past . 
They were promptly shown the door . 
Prasada , 62 , was the older of the duo . 
He contested the party election for presidentship against Sonia in November last but was miserably outmanoeuvred and outnumbered by the ruling coterie . 
Of the 7COMMA542 valid votes , he polled a pitiful 94 . 
Yet another young talent given a Congress ticket by Bahuguna that year was Vishwanath Pratap Singh . 
After finding his feet in the Congress , Prasada remained an organization man till his last . 
But I shall not leave the Congress as long as I am in politics . '' 
He made Prasada an AICC general secretary in 1985 and , later , his political secretary in the party . 
In 1991 , when P . 
When Rao 's court was filled with the likes of Chandraswamy , the tantrik , it got Prasada fuming . 
Yet he would not be disloyal to the party . 
Prasada was a disciplined man . 
But he was too decent a dissident to wear it on his sleeves . 
Cost overruns . 
Poor quality . 
Infrastructure projects in India usually suffer from one or all of these predicaments . 
But January 24 witnessed the unveiling of a project that steered clear of the usual hurdles . 
That means better driving , lower fuel consumption and lesser pollution . 
But successful completion is only half the battle won . 
That will depend on how much traffic it can attract . 
The flyway is betting on attracting a large section of the seven lakh vehicles that travel between Delhi and Noida every day . 
Noida 's current population is five lakh which is expected to swell to 20 lakh in 15 years . 
Obviously the company has a challenging marketing job at hand . 
We are just half way through . '' 
Another challenge is the political pressure being exerted for waiving the user charges . 
But deft handling can prevent such populist gimmicks . 
Maybe what the DND Flyway needs is more VVIPs to drive through . 
Until January 22 afternoon , Congress leaders didn ` t believe their usually stiff party President Sonia Gandhi would actually take the plunge . 
Start a peace process not because we think it will work but because it will look good . 
Refuse foreign mediation because we want to continue pretending there are no international dimensions to the Kashmir problem . 
Insist on bilateral discussions because even if the Simla Agreement failed it was our idea and we should stick to it . 
The end result of the current peace process , as any perceptive observer should see , is likely to be zero . 
There are other puzzling things about the prime-minister prime minister 's Kashmir policy . 
When Farooq Abdullah passed his autonomy bill there was general hysteria in Delhi . 
Farooq became , instantly , in everyone 's eyes a traitor , an enemy of India and someone not worth speaking to anymore . 
He was only asking for autonomy within the Union of India , not secession . 
There is something surreal about this . 
To be sure , the scale of the state Government 's rebuilding project was staggering . 
Nearly Rs 800 crore from a World Bank loan was spent constructing over 30COMMA000 new houses . 
Around 8COMMA400 houses were built by donor agencies . 
Additional Collector D . 
'' We had severe water-shortage water-shortage water shortage in May 1998 . 
But the rest of the houses have been certified by seismic experts from IIT Mumbai . '' 
Being the focus of millions of dollars worth of aid and free foodgrains , the people simply stopped working . 
'' Villagers are now victims of the ' dependence syndrome ' they expect the Government to provide everything , '' says Bansod . 
State officials say relief should not last for more than a month . 
But it 's the extent of psychological trauma that 's difficult to gauge . 
Then , of course , there is the omnipresent existentialist dilemma that hampered people from getting back to routine life . 
It 's a chilling reminder of how an earthquake 's destructive power can be magnified by official ineptitude . 
For instance , no senior party functionary is willing to head the AICC Relief Committee that was led by the late Jitendra Prasada . 
As a result the panel , which has been holding a series of meetings after the Gujarat quake , is not chaired by anyone . 
Collective decisions , smirk party circles , do not behove Congressmen . 
While the babus have been asked to keep their cell phones switched off , Chautala has precluded MLAs and himself from the ban . 
But what happened to their consciences when the devastating cyclone ripped through Orissa in 1999 and killed thousands ? 
But months later , only 19 of them have actually made the donation . 
So much for social commitment . 
How long before I pick up equestrian skills , the portly leader asked . 
A wife , a mother , a woman scorned , she 's playing them all on the big screen . 
All the thinking 's helping . 
The Son Also Rises 
He 's got the looks and the genes . 
Mom 's lessons are just not enough . 
The film 's just out , but the delay hasn ` t lowered the expectations from Varma . 
We are more than happy with her performance . '' 
Better late than never . 
Anything to please Amma . 
Last week I witnessed a minor municipal miracle in Mumbai . 
If this transformation was achieved for the benefit of ordinary citizens , Mumbai 's municipal commissioner would qualify for a national award . 
Why should they ? 
It is the business of businessmen to do business and the business of government to invest in development . 
Private money will undoubtedly go the same way . 
Information Technology Minister Pramod Mahajan is one of them . 
But now not only does India have five million mobile connections but every party leader , minister and worker is also using the device . 
Karnataka Chief Minister S . 
Fernandes waited in vain for his call to be returned . 
But for the BJP leader , the cruellest blow perhaps is that his foes liken his ways to former prime-minister prime minister V . 
But Naidu worries this will cut him off from the masses . 
Bravado or quintessential populism ? 
For Vallabhaneni Venkateswara Rao it was the end of the road . 
And there were hardly any buyers for his crop of paddy . 
Orissa Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik even wrote to the Centre , protesting against the discriminatory treatment to Punjab , but to no avail . 
But problems other than pricing have become more pressing . 
In some states prices of diesel , power and fertiliser have also risen somewhat . 
So , one minute autonomy is the worst thing in the world . 
Evidently , India is made of sterner stuff . 
It now contemplates August 15 with a replay of Kandahar in miniature . 
But male chauvinism was its blind side . 
Little doubt . 
In the past three years , under Prime Minister A . 
Much of this is because the Prime Minister 's Office has played an overarching role in foreign affairs over the years . 
Dixit regards her as a '' sober , thoughtful and practical person not given to flights of articulation . 
She is not flamboyant but a quiet , methodical and systematic worker '' . 
All these should stand the foreign office 's first woman boss in good stead in the turbulent times ahead . 
But the respite is temporary . 
Sorry , it 's a misplaced worry . 
In the FTV case too , the fear of the anatomy police defies both logic and commonsense . 
'' I haven ` t added a brick to my property since 1991 , '' rues Jagdish Chaudhary , a mustard farmer from Jaipur . 
Some have even committed suicide . 
Tea growers in Tamil Nadu are selling their produce way below cost . 
Coconut farmers in Kerala are dumping unsold stocks on roadsides . 
Unfolding in the past few months is the largest and most enigmatic agriculture crisis faced by independent India . 
In essence , the crisis is nothing more than a noble vision gone horribly wrong . 
The funds released from subsidies could then be ploughed back into agriculture . 
That made foodgrain cultivation more rewarding but didn ` t help reduce the subsidies . 
These MLAs are mainly from Kolkata and south Bengal where Congress workers have en masse joined the Trinamool . 
According to party circles , these developments signal a new era of flexibility in the Congress ' approach to alliances . 
In Tamil Nadu , the Congress also desperately needs to ride the crest with the AIADMK . 
Earlier this month she embarrassed the Congress by admitting the PMK into the alliance without consulting it . 
She also offered a measly 10 seats to the Congress in the first round of talks . 
A miffed Congress imagined it could bolster its bargaining clout by entering into a pact with the TMC . 
Jayalalitha punctured this strategy by offering the Congress and the TMC a total of 40 seats . 
Since the TMC has 37 MLAs in the outgoing assembly , the offer threw the party into a dilemma . 
Party workers mounted pressure on Moopanar to put its own interests above that of the Congress . 
She also decided to exploit the Congress ' keenness to retain its government in Pondicherry . 
She offered it 12 out of the 33 seats in the Union territory in lieu of foregoing its share in Tamil Nadu . 
This quota would be three seats more than what the PMK and the AIADMK would be contesting . 
It is not just Jayalalitha who has been exploiting the divided TNCC . 
If it is forced to go it alone , it may fare as dismally as it did in 1998 . 
After all , I won the Lok Sabha elections twice . 
So one loss doesn ` t mean the end of the road for me . 
Moreover , my party has nominated me . 
I have not been thrust upon the people by my father , nor am I a paratrooper politician . 
Unlike the Gandhi family members , I have slogged at the grassroots level . 
I will closely pursue and monitor them and raise issues concerning Punjab . 
And I will work wherever the party wants me . 
Some of them prospered after Independence . 
Indrajit Gupta too was successful in a way . 
In 1996 , Gupta became the first communist to occupy the powerful office of the Union home minister . 
However , Gupta 's real contribution is more to the values of political India than to the leftist universe . 
After returning to India , he wrote to the party , offering his services '' in any suitable capacity '' . 
In fact , he drafted the main resolution of the Dange loyalists . 
A sand , clay and lime mix was used as plaster . 
In stone structures , mud bricks were often used to raise partition walls . 
This implies that people knew of stone architecture when the settlement began around 3 , 500 B C though fortification began later . 
The mud bricks were often of the same length but narrow and slimmer . 
The Balathal and Gilund settlements also show incipient planning with a wide street and a narrow lane dividing the residential complexes . 
Gilund had long and wide parallel walls . 
One complex is of 8COMMA000 sq ft , and there are more like it around . 
Chairman of the Archaeological Society of India S . 
It was a mixed economy based on farming , stock raising , hunting , fowling and fishing . 
Wild animals such as nilgai and blackbuck constituted 5 per cent . 
Remains of pig , fish , turtle and molluscs were also found . 
A large number of bones were charred and split open , perhaps to extract arrows . 
Then there are communities like the Gemetis , Meghwals and Bawarias who continue to practise their traditional occupation of hunters to this day . 
Some of them used to eat carrion until a few decades ago . 
The Ahars aren ` t dead . 
They still live among us . 
Besides , at the end of the day , they too will have access to cheaper funds . 
Writing a political column is a tricky business . 
Politics is contentious at the best of times and there are as many who object to what you say as those who applaud . 
Privatisation is an attempt to rectify priorities that have gone completely awry but the Congress opposes this as do our Marxist parties . 
Then also , as they are doing now , Congress MPs following their leader shouted about the family silver being sold for a song . 
So , transparency is not the issue . 
And the Congress now tells us that it opposes it fundamentally . 
Dhindsa 's supporters will point out the BCCI is an autonomous body . 
Is he up to it ? 
It 's also true Indira Gandhi finally ordered General Sam Manekshaw 's men to '' liberate '' East Pakistan . 
Indian farmers face serious problems but these are the result of an accumulation of bad policies over many , many years . 
Besides , all that the farmers ' rally was treated to were polemics and populism . 
This is exactly the kind of politics we do not need . 
For those who have lamented the erosion of ideology in politics , that would be a heartening development . 
Tragically , the recognition of privatisation as a political issue is confined to those who still nurture Nehruvian dreams and Marxist delusions . 
If the recent controversy over BALCO is any indication , the Government persuaded the cognoscenti but didn ` t quite win the political battle . 
It bolstered a perception that underneath the gloss of disinvestment lay the murkiness of crony capitalism . 
The Government 's initial lack of openness encouraged this thinking . 
At one point he even considered scrapping the deal rather than have a question mark put on his integrity . 
Though Shourie 's personal integrity and Vajpayee 's unflinching support finally saved the day on BALCO , the Government has lessons to learn . 
It is now clear that the Disinvestment Department 's obsessive secrecy must give way to full transparency verging on an information overload . 
The Government must not only be above board , it must be seen to be so . 
Although the proposal was shot down by the Cabinet last month , it fuelled fears of privatisation becoming a euphemism for cronyism . 
For the Government , the core problem seems to be the lack of a political approach . 
Just as P . 
It has opted for disinvestment by diktat , a politically unviable approach . 
On both these counts , it suffers from a failure of communication and more . 
The legislation empowers the Government to take action against money laundering , a clause that could hit the LTTE hard . 
India , however , has to put the act in perspective . 
Moreover , the question of the effectiveness of such bans in curbing terrorism remains . 
The group 's activities continue unabated in Kashmir . 
The UK ban will no doubt put some pressure on the target organizations which may even be forced to go underground . 
But viewed through the ground realities of Kashmir , the ban may not make a sizeable difference . 
For the second successive year passenger fares have not been raised . 
Instead , there is a 3 per cent increase on already high freight rates . 
In short , the commuter 's easy ride has not been interrupted . 
The lady may or may not win a majority in the next assembly . 
What is the assumption behind Mamata 's accountancy ? 
Simply put , it is that increment in expenditure will be met not by raising fares but by '' other earnings '' . 
Their capacity to pay can never match user cost and a subsidy is inherent . 
Has this happened ? 
Over the past year Rail Tel , the subsidiary agency created for the job , has become yet another parasitic bureaucracy . 
What is happening in Afghanistan is scarcely different . 
Historically Afghanistan was a repository of Buddhist and , later , Shaivite art and tradition . 
The effacement of this heritage is not merely a concern for India 's revanchists . 
It is a rape of mankind 's collective legacy . 
From a Buddhist stupa in central Kabul to 15th century Islamic minarets in Herat , little has been spared . 
Today only 20 per cent of this collection is traceable . 
The rest , it is feared , has either been destroyed or smuggled through Pakistan to buyers in Japan and the West . 
It may take decades but surely tranquillity will some day descend on Afghanistan . 
Till then history is at the mercy of the pillaging Taliban . 
George 's bunch of supporters claim their leader has been done in by Ambika Soni , the new No . 
The overwhelming feeling is that he deserved it . 
Officials in the chief minister 's office say this would '' go well in keeping with the Silicon Valley image of Bangalore '' . 
Most legislators , however , do not know what to do with these gizmos . 
They would have been a far happier lot if the Government had helped them replace their ageing Ambassadors with shiny new Lancers . 
But after ' Diggy ' helped him become the chief minister of Chhattisgarh , he denied he ever said it . 
Insiders wonder how long will it be before he withdraws his Rs 100 crore graft charge against the PMO . 
Fifty years in which the main beneficiaries have been government officials . 
This is half the money the Government collects in taxes . 
The ministry performs a list of other useless tasks and if it ceased to function tomorrow nobody would notice it . 
Yet , whole floors of Shastri Bhavan are occupied by I & B Ministry officials . 
Close it down , Mr Finance Minister , and do the taxpayers a real favor . 
Again , the real solution is perhaps to close them down and chuck the officials into the surplus pool . 
Who wants to lose their jobs ? 
Why not , for instance , a single ministry of transport to include railways , aviation and roads ? 
Why not just one ministry of trade and industry instead of a whole lot of useless , little ones ? 
Will such excesses become history at the stroke of a pen ? 
The official view is quite stern . 
According to tax experts , the changes will come under the following heads of income . 
The entire amount may come under tax . 
The perk seems destined to become taxable . 
It is expected that this perquisite will now be evaluated on a single basis . 
If it is evaluated as a share of the basic salary , the share is likely to be doubled to 20 per cent . 
The value may be trebled . 
The cash component may still rule high because there is no signal yet that the Government is going to tax reimbursements . 
It is challenged , if at all , on a random basis . 
Who let the dogs out ? 
Those familiar with this year 's Grammy award nominee Baha Men will find the song 's sentiments echoing on the stock markets . 
The next day it rose by another 24 points . 
Investors locked in a comatose market for months looked forward to happier times . 
But they had not contended with party poopers . 
Suddenly , on March 2 the Sensex plummeted by 176 points . 
The ostensible reason was the bloodbath on the Nasdaq . 
The ripples didn ` t take long to touch North Block . 
Perturbed by the tremors rocking the market , the Finance Ministry cracked its whip . 
Even as they sniffed around , the Sensex plunged by a further 96 points to 3998 on March 5 . 
For well over a year , the bulls had used the tech boom to keep the bears at bay . 
This was just what the bears were waiting for . 
But they got the timing wrong again . 
It was too close after the budget and stirred a reaction they had not bargained for . 
SEBI 's investigation reveals a trail of skulduggery that is shocking . 
Even as SEBI wrestled with the web of transactions , an unidentified caller reached SEBI Chairman D . 
Rathi chose to resign and declared his '' intention to fight for justice '' . 
SEBI also defanged the bear operators by ordering a ban on all forward sales unless backed by delivery . 
This included information from depositories , trading rooms of FIs , SEBI and friendly bankers . 
The chief minister of Chhattisgarh has instigated 7COMMA500 workers of the recently privatised aluminum company to silence their machines and destroy public property . 
Else , he has threatened to revoke BALCO 's mining licence and disrupt its water supply . 
This is not politics ; it is the marriage of anarchism and blackmail . 
He insisted the actual worth was Rs 5COMMA500 crore . 
If Jogi had still been the gainfully unemployed party spokesman that he was a few months ago , his rambling could have been discounted . 
'' I don ` t call this a split , '' says PCC chief Pranab Mukherjee . 
'' It won ` t make any difference to us . '' 
Ever since Mamata broke away to form the Trinamool in 1997 , there has been a string of desertions from the Congress . 
In the previous assembly elections , the undivided Congress had 40.21 per cent vote share . 
As East Pakistan bled and millions were made refugees in India , there was rejoicing in the West . 
'' Thank God , Pakistan is saved , '' crowed Bhutto . 
The major part of the army behaved as professional soldiers . '' 
But the UN Human Rights Commission in its 1981 report said the genocide in Bangladesh was one of the worst in history . 
The commission blamed Yahya , Niazi and the GHQ for the defeat in Dacca . 
But reading between the lines , it is quite clear that it was the entire Pakistani military establishment that was at fault . 
The website had made people believe that the Defence Ministry was a den of corruption and thieves . 
I shudder at the thought at what they must have done to the entire security system of our country . 
It could serve the interests of foreign countries . 
This whole thing is the result of it . 
Now arms merchants and middlemen have no access . 
com tapes ? 
The president of the mighty Bharatiya Janata Party grabbing huge wads of notes and stashing them away like a petty thief . 
So many people come and see me and they donate money , what is wrong ? 
A great deal , Mr Bangaru Laxman , a very great deal , and it 's just as well you resigned . 
Worse , we have that ultimate protector of the great Hindu rashtra , the RSS , also implicated in power broking and dirty deals . 
It looks bad , very bad indeed , and the prime-minister prime minister has only himself to blame . 
Could the Government fall ? 
Who knows ? 
But if it survives then the prime-minister prime minister really needs to show us what he can do . 
What is required is a visible attempt to change the system . 
Meanwhile , we need to consider how political parties can be funded more legitimately . 
Is it the funeral fragrance of power that is wafting across Indraprastha ? 
This is abundantly true in the evolutionary saga of Messrs Bangaru Laxman and George Fernandes . 
Remember his brotherly call to the Muslims ? 
It takes only a few currency notes to turn a symbol into a shame . 
The BJP can not even call it an embarrassment of riches . 
And social correctness won ` t allow it to add an appropriate adjective to the embarrassment either . 
But Stained George , being a socialist with diminished causes , suffers from no embarrassment . 
Today the Georgian morality looks as crumpled as the Georgian kurta . 
External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh was then persuaded to send him to Canada as the high commissioner . 
But Singh , reluctant to leave India , sought the help of Disinvestment Minister Arun Shourie to plead for him with L . 
Advani gave his nod to Shourie for appointment of Singh to an innocuous post in India . 
The excuse given was that the MPs were targeted by the Tamil Tiger suicide cadres who had opposed the package since the beginning . 
For , fearing that many more would either cross over or be bought , the party flew 11 MPs to Singapore . 
The protesters took out several rallies that clogged Colombo 's streets . 
Realising that the strategy was not working and fearing that the bill would be defeated , Kumaratunga pulled back . 
The Bankas met with a tragic end probably because of an exorbitant commitment beyond the dabba . 
It is a fact of life . '' 
The current problem is somewhat different . 
Outside the building , there was no way that they could trace Singhania , Poddar or Biyani . 
One of them had reportedly been admitted to Belle Vue Hospital , but the hospital authorities had no clue about it . 
The others had '' gone to Mumbai '' , their family members said . 
The overhang of the unofficial debt , though , persists . 
The sources of such debt are bizarre . 
It is different from Mumbai , where relatively transparent corporate funds are in use for speculation . 
If Kolkata continues to play the '' rogue exchange '' , it will soon become the paradise for speculation based on dubious leveraging . 
He 's seen it up close , smelt it all around him for 20 years ; and the aroma has usually been heady . 
Things haven ` t drifted George 's way over the past one year . 
In early 2000 he had expected a nomination to the Rajya Sabha . 
The timing of lodging the fir may be questionable . 
The NDA Government has after all been under pressure from the Congress to resign following the Tehelka tapes . 
As Congress MP Ahmed Patel put it , '' It is a piece of political vendetta . '' 
Still , it has proved acutely embarrassing for the party president . 
The bureaucrat , the flamboyant businessman and the Syrian Christian stenographer who made good were quite a threesome in those days . 
The CBI spoiled the party . 
When Aggarwal found himself in the law 's net , he expected George to help extricate him from the mess . 
Following Verma 's disclosure , and the subsequent interrogation of Aggarwal , the CBI feels it has enough to tighten the noose around George . 
Sample the CBI 's case . 
In this period George spent Rs 1.2 lakh , allowing him a savings potential of a maximum Rs 7.64 lakh . 
Yet the George family 's loose change is substantial . 
In October 2000 , the CBI chanced upon a bank account in Delhi in the name of one of George 's minor children . 
Not bad , given George 's sole fortune when he came to Delhi was his ability to type fast . 
Other leads that the agency will follow are on the '' well wishers '' of the Georges who sent them enormous amounts from abroad . 
George was quizzed at the CBI headquarters in Delhi for nearly 20 hours over four visits in the summer of 2000 . 
Each member has a different approach to readying themselves for a confrontation with an opposing tribe . 
It is also my role to help bring the tribe together and summarise where our opportunities and weaknesses lie . 
However , as the series had already proven , contentment with one 's position can be shortlived . 
Speculators would sell huge quantities of shares without actually owning them . 
This is how the bear cartel rigged the market for months , eventually leading to the crash . 
'' Nothing will come out of it , but I will get some mental peace , '' admits Maheshwari . 
The mushrooming of software and technology companies in the past two years is one instance of the failure of the Department of Company Affairs . 
After the CBI filed a disproportionate assets FIR against him , the party is rallying around Sonia Gandhi 's personal secretary . 
Even his boss was sympathetic . 
While George opted out of Sonia 's Hong Kong trip , he was allowed to see her off at the airport . 
A political statement there ? 
It also appears that in the past four years the population of the rhesus monkeys in Delhi has gone up significantly . 
'' Clearly they are not healthy monkeys , and they are essentially the ones that are biting people , '' she says . 
Now is the time I can sit with them , help them in their homework , give them emotional strength . 
The Government expectedly failed to stick to the March 31 2001 deadline . 
With economic philosophy not quite a Sangh core competence , Sudarshan 's interventions in this area were mystifying . 
In particular , Sudarshan 's patronage of S . 
While nobody accuses Sudarshan of personal ambition , the charitable explanation is that '' he is an impressionable man '' . 
Sudarshan recommended candidates for Rajya Sabha seats . 
He approached the prime-minister prime minister directly when a lowly Delhi Development Authority official sought a bribe from a Vishwa Hindu Parishad sympathiser . 
Others can make their own choices . '' 
The effect of the morphine injection lasts just four hours . 
The palliative effect of painting lasts longer . 
Long enough to touch her heart and the hearts of others . 
Though Sonia 's managers manoeuvred to get their candidates through , the dissidents managed to score a point . 
The AGP has been harping on the nexus for almost a year now . 
The Ministry of Home Affairs initiated a probe but has failed to come up with evidence . 
This has not prevented AGP and BJP leaders from attacking the Congress . 
The reasons for the ULFA 's anger against the AGP are not far to seek . 
More than 500 ULFA activists have been killed and 2COMMA700 have surrendered since then . 
The underground organization waited for the elections to hit back . 
The ULFA hopes the AGP 's defeat will bring a change in policies on dealing with insurgency . 
The attacks in the past few weeks have shown the rebels mean business . 
Security officials have drawn up a list of 150 highly vulnerable candidates , 138 of whom belong to the AGP and the BJP . 
The threat perception has quite clearly changed . 
For the Unified Command in Assam , protecting candidates is a big challenge . 
The politicians themselves are not too worried . 
Advani knows only too well that the people of Assam want peace . 
'' Accusing the Congress of having a nexus with the ULFA is a sign of frustration on their part . '' 
The Election Commission , too , has drawn flak . 
Criticising the EC is probably a ploy to win that extra vote . 
What happened ? 
All those who helped him or promoted him were either insulted or ousted from the party by him . 
Is it big enough to oust Laloo ? 
On the question of development , I am ready to pay any price and face any consequence . 
The future of Bihar can not be sacrificed for Laloo 's promotion . 
I can only reply to Laloo , though I will not use the kind of language he uses . 
I am a cultured person , a university professor . 
Mehndi has relented , changing Nabi and the other objectionable words . 
Noori added that he had nothing against Mehndi . 
'' In fact we didn ` t even know he existed before this . '' 
Initially the loyalists treated Bano 's victory as a foregone conclusion and concentrated on ensuring Kalmadi 's victory over Sibal . 
Clearly , the Sonia camp hadn ` t reckoned on a late swing . 
On polling day , the loyalists changed priorities . 
Strategist Arjun Singh lobbied frenetically to ensure Bano 's defeat and the election of Sibal and Naresh Pugalia as treasurer . 
Finally , Sibal won by two votes . 
At the end of it all , Bano 's defeat is hurting the dissidents . 
Instead , during the campaign , all we got were polemics and platitudes . 
She was no exception . 
What , for instance , is Mamata didi doing arm in arm with Sonia didi when they hated each others guts only weeks ago ? 
These are cynical times indeed and because cynicism is infectious , we hacks have not escaped unscathed either . 
But if you make up your mind on appearances you may make the biggest mistake of your life . 
Last year 16 students got into IIMs . 
And this is absolutely normal here . 
Companies like Young , Bank of America , PriceWaterhouseCoopers are just some of the names that have picked up students straight from the campus . 
The faculty and excellent placement make SRCC the ideal for any student pursuing a bachelor 's degree in commerce or economics . 
Many are reputed authors of commerce books . '' 
So far we have survived on hope and promises but can not take it any longer . 
It 's unbearable . '' 
Unbearable it is , what with poverty , unemployment lack of food and drinking water and poor healthcare . 
And yet , the concept of birth control is sadly lacking among the tribals . 
The state Government does provide about 2COMMA5000 tonnes of grain and Rs 25 crore worth of employment projects since October last year . 
There 's also over 200 million tonnes of grain in Food Corporation of India godowns , but the children continue to die of malnutrition . 
Eknath Khadse , former irrigation minister and a BJP leader , alleges that most of the government schemes are only on paper . 
The public distribution system , a veritable lifeline in these inaccessible areas , doesn ` t exist on the map . 
Receiving healthcare is a nightmare . '' 
Khadse 's allegations are not without basis . 
In December last year , the licenses of six shopkeepers in the area were revoked after the villagers complained of a ration racket . 
The shopkeepers were caught when six truckloads of foodgrain meant for Nandurbar tribals were seized near the Gujarat border . 
Besides , no period has been specified for submitting the report . 
Social conditioning does not allow closer cohabitation and the distances result in poor access to the medical centres . '' 
The villagers can do little but wait . 
However , till the Government ensures that its schemes work and the benefits reach the 33COMMA000 families children will continue to die . 
Perhaps the best way is to create a mechanism within to judge the judges . 
Doing good and doing enough aren ` t always the same . 
Last week 's lifting of floodgates for FDI is a good step . 
In sectors ranging from pharmaceuticals to township development foreigners can now set up 100 per cent subsidiaries . 
They can also control up to 74 per cent of telecom services like the ISPs . 
Intriguingly , the print media still remains out of bounds for foreign investment . 
For the government of India , the pen seems more dangerous than the sword . 
Or it is unable to act against the powerful newspaper lobby that fears foreign competition , making protection to print media an absurd exception . 
Actual annual FDI inflow since 1996 has averaged only $ 2.5 billion . 
That 's just about 5 per cent of the $ 45 billion FDI China gets every year . 
Investors , both foreign and Indian , complain most of the bureaucratic hurdles . 
Foreign investors feel more flustered because they are not used to the hurdles . 
Not that they have to . 
Clearly , just opening the doors for foreigners isn ` t enough . 
By Neeraj Mishra The strike has ended , but not the uncertainty . 
But what is important is that a message went out that there was something fishy in the deal . 
It was the same Jogi who had claimed in March that he would not relent unless Sterlite 's majority stake in BALCO was diluted . 
That makes the sale unconstitutional . 
Sterlite claims that it is being unfairly singled out whereas companies like Daewoo and Essar too have been given tribal land . 
He is also examining the mining lease of Hindalco and six other companies . 
For him BALCO is still a good bet . 
'' It 's no longer viable to set up a new aluminium plant anywhere in the world . 
Mistakes typify Indian economics . 
His admission was made to me in an interview on national TV . 
Every other politician went along because when it comes to economic matters , borrowed ideas from failed ideologies usually cloud judgement . 
Economics is such a confusing thing for the Indian politician he tries to stay away from it . 
The prolonged high drama over the fate of BALCO has cast its shadow over the future of privatisation . 
One such comfort is the clearance of future privatisation deals from the states concerned . 
This could create complications in cases in which the PSU under the hammer has units in more than one state . 
BALCO , for instance , has units in Chhattisgarh and West Bengal . 
It 's also quite likely that the Government may not get the full payment for its future sales in PSU equity upfront . 
On its part , the Central Government is hoping that the shadow of BALCO does not extend beyond the next couple of deals . 
If the privatisation process moves smoothly from now , most of the apprehensions generated by the BALCO controversy will be laid to rest . 
That , claim Disinvestment Ministry officials , is the biggest hope for the future success of privatisation . 
NIOT Director Professor M . 
If unearthed , it would be the first such archaeological find in the Gulf of Cambay . 
'' It was an accidental discovery , '' says Ravindran . 
'' We were doing some pollution check for a private company and our teams were collecting routine data . 
And here we are with clinching evidence of a lost settlement perhaps 6COMMA000 years old . '' 
The confirmation is yet to come , but the findings are astounding . 
The Side Scan Sonar could not have given better photographs under the turbulent waters where sand currents make imaging extremely difficult . 
'' See , '' Badrinarayan points his finger still shaking with excitement , '' taller structures have deeper basements . 
Those old guys , I should admit , were great engineers . '' 
The Harappan theory is strengthened by the pebbles which NIOT had stumbled upon . 
That virtually every ancient civilisation flourished on river banks adds to the validity of the NIOT find . 
Archaeological studies of the Gujarat coast suggest that places like Lothal were port cities as the ocean extended till there . 
Then how come the structures now identified by NIOT were submerged ? 
According to a note prepared by the organization , the most probable answer is earthquakes . 
Research conducted by Centre for Earth Science Studies , Thiruvananthapuram , confirm that earthquakes have brought down land level by several metres . 
Gupta contacted Union HRD Minister Murli Manohar Joshi who was equally excited at the preliminary evidence . 
However , experts advise caution . 
Says Rao , '' Unless there is definite datable object we can not say it is as old as the Harappan civilisation . '' 
Finding datable objects poses a challenge for NIOT . 
Moreover , these vessels do not have a dynamic positioning system that enables stability while handling crawlers and other heavy equipment . 
'' There are times , '' says G . 
Kathiroli recounts the many times their vessel was grounded as the depth of the sea suddenly decreased by more than 10 m . 
The cost factor is another impediment . 
The investment might be worth it . 
The Cambay find needs a lot more evidence to give it shape . 
Also , it is important to get datable pottery . 
We established Dwarka to date back to 1600 b c through thermoluminescence . 
Sending divers 40 m deep to collect samples is a trying proposition . 
The exploration of Dwarka in 1981 looks like child 's play compared to this operations . 
Divers could spend a long time underwater collecting material from the Dwarka site , which is just 5 m deep . 
Even expert divers from the Indian Navy can not stay underwater for more than 20 minutes in the interregnum between the tides . 
And perhaps the best catch ever for any marine archaeologist . 
The Border Security Force 's intelligence wing , G branch , has also been cleared for equipment upgradation aimed at strengthening its aviation wing . 
In case of the RAW , the Government has already approved some pending proposals , including increase in the frequency of border spy missions . 
By giving a green signal for additional manpower and equipment , the Government has in effect injected more funds into the agency . 
Resources will be provided to train IB personnel for decoding cyber messages and to equip them with better linguistic skills . 
He will have the army , navy and air intelligence wings under him and will give intelligence assessment to the NSA . 
It will obtain and interpret satellite pictures of target areas from the Department of Space to facilitate military operations . 
A section of the intelligence community feels there won ` t be much change as only the top spectrum has been changed . 
However , making the intelligence heads accountable at least makes for a good beginning . 
Once India indicates the prime-minister prime minister 's earliest convenience we will ensure that there is no delay from our side . 
Through a realistic approach , we hope to find a solution acceptable to the Kashmiri people . 
Unless it is acceptable to them nothing can be achieved . 
I believe unless a conversation is started we can not decide what is worth discussing . 
What we have been hearing is from the Press . 
It is far worse to go ahead with the talks and then be embittered . 
As far as I 'm concerned , we will make all efforts to see that an agreement can be reached . 
Your prime-minister prime minister too strikes us as being upfront and open . 
The Indian Government is using alarming words which gives the Indian Army a blank cheque to continue state terrorism against the Kashmiri people . 
We hope India will reconsider its decision . 
After all , initiating a proposal to have a dialogue and then to start an aggressive operation on the same day is contradictory . 
You end up taking one step forward and two steps backward . 
Pakistan forces also withdrew much behind the lines . 
India kept saying it might allow them to come to Islamabad but it 's over five months now and there has been no decision . 
So it is unrealistic and incorrect to blame us for what is happening in Kashmir . 
Mascarenhas says of that accusation , '' There are no investigations on in Sri Lanka . 
It 's one guy fighting with another guy and we were caught in the middle . 
The Lankan attorney general said that far back as 1998 . '' 
About the charges in India he replies , '' We 've gone before each and every investigating authority . 
It is unfortunate that a disgruntled board politician has made these wild , baseless and horribly damaging allegations . 
That 's the price one has to pay in a very visible business . '' 
Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal likened the WTO to the capital 's mysterious Monkey Man . 
Even Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee , who presided over the meeting , could not help guffawing . 
And Chief Minister Rajnath Singh appears to be a helpless head of government . 
Out to cultivate a '' press friendly '' image , the Jat chieftain has recently been at his '' pr best '' . 
So why didn ` t they do it after she won the recent polls ? 
Apparently , there were '' standing instructions '' not to bend before Amma , at least in public . 
But the moment the media moved out , newly sworn in ministers paid obeisance in the only way they know . 
The scam was brewing a while . 
Teachers at several centres were not being paid . 
Ground realities , however , suggested it wasn ` t true . '' 
In direct contrast we have states like Bihar and up . 
These are states that are poor due entirely to bad governance . 
up could , if it had one decent government , make all the money it needs solely from tourism . 
It has the mahal , Benares and more . 
But it hasn ` t had a chief minister who has thought of tourism as a possible means of strengthening the economy . 
So nobody has built roads , hotels and other infrastructure like telecom and electricity which benefit not just tourists but people too . 
In pursuit of this elusive goal Bihar 's villages have become battlefields for caste armies and its cities have become ugly , unstoppable slums . 
Patna is about the only state capital in India which does not have a single , decent hotel . 
Murtaza 's track record suggests that so far he has been lucky . 
Last year , he was arrested in Vadodara for cheating a franchisee . 
He was again arrested for pirating a popular Oracle software . 
'' We believe that most of the software used in Zap centres is pirated , '' says DCP Singh . 
Mithani 's '' undesirable '' Dubai connections have also become a cause for concern . 
Besides , I have nothing to do with computer education . 
I 'm in the field of communications . '' 
He may be shocked but so are hundreds of students and franchisees baying for the Mithanis ' blood . 
Calcium levels are digitally scored . 
And so , while Pant is seen as '' Delhi 's man '' , it is Musharraf 's visit that everyone is waiting for . 
'' One of us , '' is how the general is being described by many in the Valley . 
Unlike Pant whose dialogue is being dubbed as another '' political stunt '' . 
The issue is the resolution of the Kashmir dispute , not development and employment . '' 
The Hurriyat , even Governor G . 
By refusing to play ball with Pant , they have not only queered the pitch but also ensured that the exercise remains largely futile . 
He can not solve the Kashmir dispute . 
That can only be arrived at with Pakistan 's help , and Vajpayee has proved this by inviting Musharraf . '' 
Militants targeted their key informers apart from conducting daring attacks on nerve centres demoralising personnel . 
It is in this environment that the Centre is trying to keep the peace initiative moving . 
In Kashmir , they side with whoever they think is powerful . '' 
Now , the landless Ali has left Jamila with her parents and moved to Gujarat to earn a livelihood . 
Resham 's father Hassan Khan needed someone to look after his ailing son and Mitha had jumped at the offer . 
What will Reshma do now ? 
So Reshma 's next husband will be his second son Akbar Khan , 8 . 
All in the name of '' social justice '' . 
Do we need to punish states that have worked hard to provide decent governance and decent standards of living ? 
In tackling such profound questions , the law will make an ass of itself . 
In February 2000 , the Union Government accommodated the very views in the national population policy . 
Gujarat can ` t pretend this document doesn ` t exist . 
More temples are believed to be buried in what appears to be a massive complex . 
Hence figures of Hindu gods in a Jain temple are common . 
On the inner walls are idols of Lord Ganesh , Hanuman and Goddess Lakshmi . 
Another image shows a meditating Lord Mahavir surrounded by yakshas and yakshinis . 
Among the buried figures that have been extricated are the twin idols of tirthankars Parshavanath and Supaarshavanath , carved from a single marble stone . 
A few metres ahead a smaller animal , the alpha female , forages in the shadows . 
It has been burnt and stuffed with thorns . 
Later , he 'd returned with more accomplices , smoked the pups out and smashed their heads with a lathi . 
'' This kind of killing is a common occurrence , '' says Jhala , who is known for his iconoclastic studies on Indian wolves . 
The outer wall on the southern side of the temple has some disfigured images . 
A Canadian television team tried to get me to say on camera last week that the Indian justice system was evil . 
I hesitated to use the word evil on camera . 
I admitted that the system was corrupt , ineffectual , malleable and thereby unjust but balked at using the word evil . 
The word '' evil '' is the appropriate one to describe our justice system . 
Just take the Uphaar case . 
At the rate at which it is proceeding , it will be 20 years before justice is done . 
Even terrorists remain '' under trial '' for years . 
In the Indian Airlines hijack case , we faced the humiliation of releasing terrorists who had been in jail for nearly five years . 
Things are now so bad that Union Law Minister Arun Jaitley himself admits '' judicial independence is being used to safeguard judicial inefficiency '' . 
In statistical terms this means a backlog of cases that , according to some estimates , will take 324 years to clear . 
The high courts have almost doubled their backlog in the past decade from 1.9 million cases in the early 1990s to 3.4 million today . 
Lower courts have a backlog of more than 20 million cases . 
So what is the minister doing about this horrendous state of affairs ? 
Perhaps , the chief justice can tell us why before he retires in October . 
Industry Minister P . 
There would be no need for an elected government if everything were to be done by the bureaucracy , he adds . 
A more than willing Cabinet put its seal of approval on the issue on April 28 with changes to be implemented within a week . 
The Government is now spending about Rs 90COMMA000 every month on the perquisites and salary of each minister . 
Fed up with the growing conflict between the ministers and officials , the chief minister has now started monitoring their relationship . 
Surprisingly , when she visited Delhi in May Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Home Minister L . 
While in Delhi , she met Sonia Gandhi too though that visit did bring to the fore the differences within her party . 
Much of the confusion within the party stems from the inexplicable ambiguity in Mamata 's recent acts . 
It is not even clear if her party actually quit the NDA . 
Her only tokens of '' revolt '' were her own resignation and that of Panja from the Union council of ministers . 
'' If this trend continues , we will soon lose the entire carnivore guild of Kutch . '' 
Wolves , even though they 're known to be a hardy race , are on the endangered list of Indian wildlife . 
Once they roamed around large parts of the country , scouring the landscape in numerous packs . 
Jhala 's plan to save the Indian wolf is twofold . 
The other thrust of Jhala 's struggle is to build a national management-strategy management strategy for wolves . 
George isn ` t complaining though . 
These days , he isn ` t tied down to 10 Janpath for 16 to 18 hours a day as was the case earlier . 
Why , he even took his family recently on a holiday to God 's Own Country . 
Surely , nothing is going to change in the state Congress if the wife replaces the husband . 
But for the dissidents , it 's going to be a coup no less . 
I believe the electoral system in India is the mother of many ills that beset the country . 
The idea of Khalistan will not fail . 
It was paralysed and its hind legs and pelvis fractured . 
Soon after , wildlife experts put the lactating elephant on a saline drip but she died on June 10 . 
It is quite likely her calf will die too . 
As it happened last Thursday when a goods train rammed into the mother elephant near Rajabhatkhawa in the Buxa forests . 
It has also forced the Central Government to take notice . 
Recently , Bist submitted a report to the Ministry of Environment which will soon be made public . 
According to its recommendations , if conversion of the railroad can not be avoided then precautions should be taken . 
'' The track was laid out a century ago when the concept of protected areas did not exist , '' says Bist . 
Other forest officials are more direct . 
'' They should uproot the track and get out of our area . '' 
On the day of the attack , a Sumo with a woman driver would head towards the visa section from Shanti Path . 
At the same time , a Maruti car laden with RDX would approach the visa section from Nyaya Marg . 
The woman driver would stop , open the bonnet , and feign engine trouble . 
The Sumo would stop , its driver offer the Maruti driver help . 
The two women drivers would talk briefly before driving off in the Sumo . 
Summitry in Agra , against the monumental backdrop of mahal ? 
It can ` t be the lack of facilities . 
It can only be a determination to be trivial and reduce a serious diplomatic encounter to predictable photo opportunities before the mahal . 
In the charred remains of that fiery day in Imphal lies a story of regional remoteness and national indifference . 
Given the voracious human appetite for land , even he knows achieving this would be nothing short of a miracle . 
'' But , '' he adds , '' one has to keep trying . '' 
The plight of the wolves only symbolises the tragic fate of Indian wildlife today . 
Today , this very gown is in tatters , slashed by human interests , covering only 4 per cent of the country . 
But what are you doing to remove this , well , alienation ? 
Give the wretched more dollops and keep them happy . 
As per a special status under the Constitution , the Northeast gets 20 per cent of the total Central assistance to the states . 
What has it achieved ? 
Certainly not a scenario of development repudiating the gun . 
Rather , the situation there is one of less development and more underground guns . 
And you can not bring the Northeast to the national mainstream by treating the regional crisis as a law and order problem . 
Emotional integration is the issue here . 
That can not be achieved at gun point , or by more economic packages . 
Reach out to them and redeem them from a corrupt political class . 
Make them feel at home , the name of which is India , India alone . 
Even while toning the triceps on the Nautilus , it 's labels all the way . 
Faux will do , sometimes they even outlast the original . 
The idea is to look clean , sophisticated and understated , never mind the dubious antecedents of the outfit . 
The beer glass is a nighttime accessory and if there 's a cigar to complement it , you are the high priest of Luckihood . 
Doesn ` t matter if it 's the same Cohiba that you 've been flashing for two weeks . 
Fashion Street or Fashion Flash , ersatz offleads come cheap and easy . 
The race for Alexander McQueen , Michael Kors , Hussein Chalayan , or Yamamoto is still wide open . 
The glint of gold is important to be taken more seriously by Lucki peers . 
Compare a super stylish club in London and Djinns . 
You 'd probably find upstartish Versace here and an avant garde Yohji Yamamoto there . '' 
For the young , Che Guevera and Amitabh Bachchan were cool , and the dollar was exotic . 
It was chic to be Left , wear kurtas and sport angst as an unshaven commitment . 
The body was a beautiful accessory and the dotcom generation , emerging later in the decade , became technologically fluent . 
'' One day , '' recalled Dixit , '' Deen Dayalji 's leg hit the cycle wheel and it started bleeding . 
But he didn ` t tell his friend and went to the rally despite his injury . '' 
The party has been in power in Lucknow for more than half the decade since 1991 . 
The BJP has split the state into six regions , each to be looked after by an organising secretary . 
Currently , three incumbents run two regions apiece . 
More than one BJP aspirant complained the sum promised never reached him in full . 
There have also been accusations of sexual harassment against both organising secretaries and their subordinates , the divisional vibhagya mantris . 
I refused and was constantly denied a party ticket . '' 
In 1999 , then state BJP acting president Om Prakash Singh sought to take action against '' contractors and criminals in the party '' . 
By coincidence or otherwise , Singh soon lost his charge . 
His successor , Kalraj Mishra , insists the '' organising secretaries are working with full dedication and honesty '' . 
The fact is that the party edifice Mishra presides over is riddled with holes . 
They are our Heroes of Wildlife , though they hardly see themselves as such . 
To them , success would come only if millions of other Indians joined in their struggle . 
This is their story . 
He urges his party to stop ignoring the Muslims simply because they do not vote for it . 
'' We have somehow taken it for granted that our party will not receive any significant support from them . 
In an election year , that is half the battle lost . 
For 400 years , it has stood as the symbol of Hyderabad . 
Built by the Qutubshahi dynasty , the Charminar is an elegant symbiosis of Hindu and Muslim traditions . 
'' We are spending more on damage control than on protecting the monument , '' admits Dr S . 
The latest scar is on the southwest minaret . 
It is a gaping eyesore that has made Chief Minister N . 
He has put Syed Omar Jaleel , former regional director in the Hyderabad municipal administration , in charge of the pedestrianisation project . 
The damage has come when the state is being promoted aggressively as a tourist destination . 
The first warnings came as early as 1984 when the Birla Archaeological and Cultural Research Institute , Hyderabad , carried out an exhaustive study . 
They recommend banning heavy vehicles in the vicinity and continuous monitoring of vehicular vibrations . 
The authorities have been asked to create alternative traffic routes within 18 months . 
As a first step , the ASI has pushed back the protective iron railing around the Charminar by five metres . 
The Government plans to put up road signs and street lighting and shift the nearby mandi and bus station to reduce congestion . 
Telephone and electric lines will now be laid below the ground . 
'' I told them , ' Never cover up for me , ' '' says the general . 
Even in the unrelenting environment of the army , Musharraf always found ways to be the Outsider . 
He was known for his defiance and says , '' People wonder how I made it to the top . '' 
Yet , '' I was always loved by my subordinates . 
'' He is a reluctant coupmaker , '' explains Begum Zarreen Musharraf , the President 's mother and loudest cheerleader . 
'' He would take me to task if I came home late . 
He then went on to swear on the holy Koran that he would always remain loyal and faithful . 
Bhutto 's trust was amply repaid when Zia ousted him in 1977 and then hanged him . 
Before he died , P . 
This preconceived approach has not helped our party either . 
We can not afford to allow this situation to continue . 
It should have warmed every secularist heart in India that our main '' Hindu fundamentalist '' party was showing signs of change . 
So it is interesting that Bangaru Laxman 's words seem to have had the opposite effect . 
Secular editors sneered , secular cartoonists lampooned BJP leaders and secular politicians huffed and puffed . 
How dare you , was , oddly enough , the general reaction . 
But Indian Muslims were choosy about the Islamic law they wanted and we indulged them . 
President Pervez Musharraf speaks of it in the same breath as Kashmir . 
The house was dear to Jinnah . 
Even after Partition , he refused to accept compensation for the property and longed to return to it . 
In a letter to the then prime-minister prime-minister prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru , Jinnah had begged that the house not be demolished or sold . 
Originally named South Court by Jinnah , the house was renamed Jinnah House by the consulate , which occupied it until 1982 . 
The issue of leasing the house , which has been lying vacant ever since , has been periodically raised by Pakistan . 
But the issue is too hot a political brick for any party . 
Jinnah 's only child Dina Wadia , too , has vehemently opposed Pakistan 's demand . 
She also wrote to the then Pakistan high commissioner in Delhi , Abdul Sattar , asking Islamabad to refrain from making any claim . 
'' But since it is a decision that has political implications , it has been put on hold , '' says Nusli . 
Local resident associations too have opposed its handover to Pakistan and have threatened an agitation . 
But until it takes a decision , the bats and snakes will continue to reign supreme over Jinnah 's legacy atop Malabar Hill . 
Phonetically , Agra doesn ` t rhyme with peace . 
Though peace in the subcontinental context has become more of an abstraction wrapped in emotion than a geopolitical expediency . 
Pakistan is not . 
It is an underdeveloped civil society gasping for air under the jackboot of military dictatorship . 
Get real and let each other live . 
And of course , peace can be a harmless mindset . 
She 's a woman of mental clarity and administrative purposefulness . 
Qualities that were visible even on a rival television channel . 
The steady stream of global agencies into India is guided by good economics and talent . 
'' You get to debate with the best minds and work six months ahead of the season . 
What 's not a secret is the increasing number of Indian designers continuing to hitch on to the global brandwagon . 
We spend taxpayers ' money to send Muslims on Haj without extending similar privileges to Hindu pilgrims traveling , for instance , to Manasarovar . 
We have even banned books they disapproved of , banned Salman Rushdie from coming to India because they detested him . 
But , most dangerously , we have closed our eyes to what has been going on in Muslim educational institutions . 
So when Laxman talks about understanding Muslim fears , we can only pray the BJP is not going to adopt Nehruvian secularism . 
In the process of making the Muslims feel at home we have allowed our historians to lie blatantly about Muslim rule in India . 
'' The giddha 's beauty lies in its feminine motifs , '' says Nahar Singh , a folk art researcher . 
A team can comprise any number of dancers from 15 to 40 . 
Each dancer has a specific movement to make and carries a traditional musical instrument . 
But more than such efforts , it is the village elders who have helped preserve the tradition . 
Not content with performing the dance themselves , they have popularized the art outside the village . 
Dutta has reportedly asked his heroes to sport crew cuts and is believed to have said , '' Border was a trailer . 
This will be bigger . '' 
So there was no miracle in Agra . 
As if two days in the shadow of mahal should have undone 54 years of institutionalised hate and mistrust . 
That is why the Day After has become the day of subcontinental depression . 
'' The destination of a joint statement has not been reached . '' 
For the prosaic guest there was only one destination and it was Kashmir . 
Two nations and two different attitudes . 
Agra was all about knowing each other . 
Now India has a clear idea of what the General wants . 
Also , he has shown to his countrymen what he is bargaining with India for on their behalf . 
The challenge is to make the best of a rather bad beginning . 
The summit of eternal peace is an illusion , and India and Pakistan have miles to ascend . 
That is his existential expediency . 
For India , unlike for the General , Kashmir is not a dispute but a situation , a bad domestic situation . 
Gautier points out that eminent Indian historians like Romila Thapar have helped perpetuate a negation of what really happened under Muslim rule . 
In a largely illiterate country this causes confusion and inevitably tension and violence . 
Laxman needs to think carefully about what he would like to change . 
Most of the blame should be borne by the rulers of Kashmir . 
Kashmir , like the Northeast , is far away and has been given a special status . 
Which means more dollops but less political will to make a qualitative difference to the lives of the people . 
No nation can afford to lose its people 's hearts . 
Delhi seems to be overlooking this simple truth at a time when Kashmir is part of the international glossary of flashpoints . 
Kashmir should not be subordinated to India 's problems with Pakistan . 
It should be treated as a domestic urgency . 
It deserves liberation from political apathy . 
Many are the committees that such a venture necessitates , and the largesse is spread far and wide . 
Union Sports Minister Uma Bharati in her magnanimity has appointed her housekeeper Rani Singh to three committees . 
Apparently the state is dragging its feet as former Union finance minister Manmohan Singh feels a probe would discourage foreign direct investment . 
Koolwal says Marandi failed to confirm his participation despite several requests to do so . 
He 's moved the Central Administrative Tribunal for a posting to Jaipur . 
And he 's made Sinha a party to the petition . 
At dusk , groups of policemen descend on hamlets and announce that there will be a film screening . 
Some sequences from MGR movies later there pops up the edited police video-footage video footage of the Karunanidhi arrest . 
'' See the truth , '' the policemen say . 
Meanwhile , we are forced to watch in horror '' freedom fighters '' kill innocent villagers and pilgrims . 
Despite our attempts to prove their direct involvement we have failed so far . 
Worse , perhaps , since he heads the government of a country that is not yet considered a rogue state . 
Having said this though , it is hard to absolve our own government of blame for the terrible violence in Kashmir . 
Our security forces often behave no better than terrorists and do enormous damage to India 's image and their own . 
Equally inexplicable was the Congress demand for a judicial inquiry into the recent massacre of Hindu pilgrims in Kashmir . 
Does the Congress believe , as Pakistan does , that it was Indian soldiers and not Muslim militants who were responsible ? 
Reviewing former foreign secretary J . 
There is , he wrote , '' an interest across the strata of society , from Barmer to Bromley , to understand '' Afghanistan . 
The evidence of rising unfamiliarity and disinterest in our neighborhood is overwhelming . 
Take the worthwhile studies on contemporary Afghanistan in recent years . 
A Samajwadi Party leader wants Home Minister L . 
This instant judgement is political irresponsibility . 
And the judgement brings out a larger truth , though an unpleasant one . 
Phoolan Devi , MP , signified both the triumph and tragedy of Indian democracy . 
Certainly not . 
But it is the state 's responsibility to find her killers . 
As a bandit , Phoolan had her own code of punishment . 
The state doesn ` t have to emulate her to bring posthumous justice to her . 
So for Shaikh , the lush green field of lady 's fingers has an almost therapeutic effect . 
Unmindful of the crammed suburban trains hurtling past , his hired hands diligently work the rectangular patch . 
Welcome to the '' Grow More Food '' campaign of Central Railways , Mumbai . 
Of course , it is not a millennium project . 
'' The scheme itself is very old , '' says Central Railway spokesperson Mukul Marwah . 
The revolution did indeed happen and the schemes were then forgotten . 
Another problem crept in . 
In Mumbai the unmanageable immigrant influx and high pressure on scarce land threatened the Railways ' real estate . 
The encroachers were evicted from the safety zone after a series of high court judgements . 
The Railways had to think of a way of keeping their property free of encroachers . 
'' That 's when we became aware of the scheme 's potential to protect land , '' explains Marwah . 
Vegetables now grow on 260 acres of vacant land leased out to 187 railway staffers . 
Rubble is being bulldozed to retrieve more land for farming . 
The railways has set itself a target of bringing more than 150 acres of land under cultivation in the next few months . 
The railroad farms also provides others with employment . 
Shaikh , for instance , hires six labourers for Rs 1COMMA000 a month to tend the fields in his absence . 
They stay in makeshift cottages near the fields guarding the produce from urchins and commuters alike . 
They pump in water from nearby Dadar station to irrigate the fields . 
Shaikh 's only grouse is that the middlemen make a bigger profit selling his vegetables in the market . 
But he 's too busy juggling his twin responsibilities as farmer and railway employee to sell the produce in the market . 
The beat of city life doesn ` t pause long enough to allow him the time . 
Yet , amid the concrete piles , he and the city are glad for the little added oxygen , the slight strips of green . 
Last week , the change was evident . 
The residents were busy refurbishing underground bunkers . 
Hotel owners were mourning the cancellation of bookings by foreign tourists . 
The caution was understandable . 
A violent backlash in the Valley was always on the cards after the talks collapsed . 
The militants remained undeterred . 
The next day in the Jammu sector , they killed 19 people , including 15 Hindu residents , women and children in Doda . 
In the following days in sporadic explosions in Srinagar , Kupwara and Bandipora , explosions left two dead and several injured . 
Even in the Siachen sector , Pakistan stepped up artillery firing in the world 's highest battlefield . 
Security forces are expecting more . 
The Indian Army 's assessment is that Pakistan will keep the loc active through infiltration and artillery firing . 
The objective is to keep the loc simmering without escalating the artillery duels . 
Within the Empire , India played an autonomous role . 
The grim reality is that the Indian mind has been truncated . 
We aspire to a larger role in the world but lack the intellectual preparedness for it . 
We demand a place in the UN Security Council , but are we equipped to undertake the obligations ? 
No more the cushion of national titles , no more hiding behind subcontinental sweeps , no more gloating over Asian Games medals . 
At the Olympic Games the Indian sees himself , with sudden , frightening clarity , in relation to a vast , unfathomable sporting universe . 
An efficient minister , his social aloofness poses a handicap . 
And will this choice sway the NDA , if not the BJP ? 
His friends are as young as three months old . 
And together with their young teachers at the elephant orphanage , these trumpeters form the unlikeliest school in the area . 
It is not a comfortable place . 
'' At the Olympics , '' says boxing coach B . 
This week 72 Indians will set out for Sydney to discover the stuff they are made of . 
It is time to meet the team . 
The women weightlifters try to shake off controversies , lift weight , shed weight and take their sport to a wider audience . 
'' If elections are held in the next six months , insurgents themselves will become people 's representatives . 
President 's rule should continue at least for a year '' . 
Officials feel the NSCN has issued statements only to keep up the morale of its cadre . 
The Government 's confidence stems from the fact that people of Nagaland want peace . 
If the NSCN returns to violence it will not enjoy any public support . 
The conclave will not take place . 
The visiting Pakistan president , who charmed the Indian media with his style , is probably not a trivia buff either . 
Recently , Purushothaman walked into an elevator in the Assembly and found it too crowded . 
So he ordered that one lift be reserved for the Speaker . 
Shyamal Kanti Chakravarti , director of the Indian Museum , Kolkata , seems to have caught the drift . 
'' Till now no one thought of the museum as a service provider , '' he says . 
Chakravarti also knows that to become a public recreational and educational utility , his museum will have to compete with films and football . 
The result was for all to see . 
In a country as diverse and treacherously complex as India , leadership has many different attributes and follows different idioms . 
Rooted in kinship , he imparted clout to rural populism . 
After the Mahatma , Jayaprakash Narayan came to symbolise saintliness . 
Yet , there was another idiom of leadership that India looked up to , an idiom that never passed the test of squeamish respectability . 
The figures may be right but not many are convinced . 
Convincing may take a while , but if Prasad 's tactics succeed , he may yet have the last laugh . 
Partymen say the Congress chief withdrew into a shell after the Opposition boycotted her tea party . 
Sonia has canceled all public engagements . 
Party circles link her renewed PR to fewer visitors at 10 Janpath . 
The Jayalalitha Government wanted these to be screened in cinema halls . 
A week after the cyber attack , police arrested the cyber cafe owner and manager . 
The police arrested him as well . 
Meanwhile , following Dr Neukar 's digital tracks left behind on computers in the Nexus cybercafe , Rangnekar homed in on one computer . 
'' We hack , we teach , we make history , we are the analyzers , '' it intones . 
Though the acid was diluted and the women released after first aid , scars in the community have begun to show . 
Young men have been visiting mosques advising people to follow the Islamic way of life . 
Even the local imams have started stressing on a dress code . 
'' It is a serious matter , '' agrees Girja Dhar , chairperson of the state Women 's Commission . 
'' The only silver lining is that all major militant groups have condemned the attack . '' 
Indeed , prominent militant groups have dissociated themselves from the dress code campaign . 
No wonder in his two years in the ministry , his heart has never been in the job . 
From airlines to airports and the hotels runs by his ministry , the changes during his tenures have mostly been for the worse . 
Last year IA reported losses of around Rs 177 crore after three profitable years . 
A new civil aviation policy is being drafted for the past six years . 
All that adds up to quite a report card for a minister . 
The rest is lost in the intricate and elaborate maze of leakages . 
He , in fact , adds to that . 
More than two lakh villages in India have no access to safe water and roads . 
About 90 per cent of rural households don ` t have sanitation facilities . 
And 40COMMA000 villages don ` t have a school building . 
'' After 53 years of Independence , is this an achievement to be proud of ? '' 
He should be answering these questions . 
Naidu proposes to put up signboards in every village detailing local development schemes . 
By making people aware of what they are entitled to , Naidu hopes to put pressure on state governments . 
He also wants corporate firms to pick up the tab . 
'' India has about six lakh companies and five lakh villages . 
But it 's the Law Ministry where Jaitley will be put to the toughest trial . 
He has set an ambitious agenda for himself for 2001 . 
He hopes to get the competition and new bankruptcy laws cleared by Parliament and intends removing government control on salaries of private sector managers . 
The amended CPC will bring down the average time to one year . 
He has simply fixed deadlines for each process in a civil case . 
For instance , at present up to six months are wasted in delivery of summons because they are sent only through registered post . 
Legal eagle L . 
Karma is now implicated in a furniture scam and may find himself out of the Cabinet in the next reshuffle . 
The singer has said yes to a role in a Hollywood film . 
How did it happen ? 
Indian language schools are , without exception , provincial , outdated and out of touch with modern methods of education . 
This is why children of our bureaucrats and politicians end up being taught in English . 
Mehtab Bagh , undoubtedly the most important among them , has been salvaged just in time . 
Well , most of it anyway . 
The southwest corner of the garden , where once a gazebo proudly stood , now houses a temple . 
But mercifully nothing concrete has emerged . 
That was a very serious issue in Punjab once . 
It is easy to caricature every nationalist as a mad Milosevic . 
But it is not so easy to keep the nation free of its enemies . 
In a world where somebody 's right is somebody else 's denial , please remember that national rights are as important as human rights . 
You must produce controlled hockey , and play tight for the first 10 minutes . 
Conceding an early lead to the home team can be suicidal . 
Also remember to keep their angle of attack to its narrowest because the last thing you should do is give the Kookaburras target practice . 
Against the Kookas , numerical superiority is the key . 
Their penalty corner set pieces are excellent , but to my mind they have only two combinations . 
You can ` t put a price tag to them . '' 
Perhaps not . 
The jewels will be on show in Delhi till October 15 . 
In November , they will be exhibited at the Salarjung Museum in Hyderabad . 
After all , the former Nizam 's subjects , who paid for such dazzling excess , would want to see them too . 
It is perhaps the sauciest story ever to have hit the headlines in contemporary Assam . 
Then , they went to the Oberoi where they occupied the Kashmiri Suite for two days before Mahanta left for Delhi on March 13 . 
The watchman at the apartment , Sachindra , says Bharali often came to her flat with some '' VIP saab '' . 
'' We were aware of the difficulties because both of us are already married , '' Bharali says . 
'' I feel devastated that Mahanta has chosen to deny everything now . '' 
How he does this must be keeping Mahanta awake at night . 
Perhaps it doesn ` t figure in any list . 
But Uttaranchal Chief Minister Nityanand Swami is cast in a different mould . 
In fact , I still consult him before taking any major decision '' . 
Nearly 30 years ago , he failed to win an assembly election on a Jan Sangh ticket . 
So he decided to try his luck with the Congress . 
Swami , who till then used to cycle daily to attend the RSS shakhas , promptly joined the Congress bandwagon . 
Years later , he returned to the BJP to seek its support for his candidacy as Legislative Council chairman . 
When the agitation for Uttaranchal was at its peak , Swami was never around . 
So when his name cropped up for chief ministership his critics began to questions his commitment to Uttaranchal . 
He should know what you like to eat and what you like to wear . 
By chief ministerial standards , Swami 's schedule is hardly punishing . 
The reason offered for his sudden illness was excessive heat due to '' malfunctioning of air conditioners '' . 
That 's a charitable view . 
For most of his party colleagues who have been baying for his blood suggest the malfunctioning is cerebral . 
'' He is old and inefficient , '' says a senior minister . 
'' It 's a directionless and confused government led by an inexperienced chief minister , '' says Suryakant Dhasmana of Congress . 
Swami may refute the charge that he is directionless but even his aides admit that he often presents a picture of confusion . 
He is known to blindly sign files put before him without raising even a single query . 
'' He is still our best bet and we are not going to replace him , '' says BJP General Secretary P . 
For Swami , the compromise chief minister , it is better it stays that way . 
What vexes sociologists most is the peril of mixing up caste with race . 
Dipankar Gupta , sociologist , blames the NGOs and '' some senile delinquents '' for engaging the country in this debate . 
'' The NGOs are flogging the issue for the sake of their own survival . 
This trip to Durban is an investment for most of them . 
As long as they continue to mix up caste and race , they can go about their business , '' he says . 
Some chastened NGOs are also wary of caste versus race discourse . 
We are not trying to denigrate the sovereignty of the nation . 
The UN scrutiny will ensure program funding of the issue . '' 
Nair is supported by Congress MP from Gujarat Pravin Rashtraphal . 
But then why should a Lok Sabha member seek help from an international agency for problems he can solve with the right political leadership ? 
Political work is a daunting task . 
More than that such work is virtually passe in states like Maharashtra and Gujarat that once witnessed militant Dalit movement . 
Rashtraphal admits he relies on the NGO network for political support . 
Today , NGOs are a springboard for politics much as labor unions once were . 
However , not everyone is convinced about the Government 's objections to the raising of the caste issue in Durban . 
The UN conference on racism next week has a provocative agenda . 
The draft declaration , which calls for reparation for slavery , has upset nations including the US . 
Chautala has had a meter installed to show him the frequency of supply from the Northern Grid . 
But the BJP 's B . 
The signatories number a lakh more than the votes Congress polled in the last elections , he says . 
Accused of trying to convert Muslims to Christianity , they were immediately jailed . 
The arrests are the latest in the Taliban 's sweep against religious minorities . 
In January , nearly 200 Shia Muslims in villages around Yakaolang in central Afghanistan were massacred . 
First at the awesome millennium summit at the UN . 
It was an occasion to talk lofty nothingness and to look statesmanish . 
The US Congress was a rarely available platform for introducing My India and rhapsodising Our Special Relationship . 
Unfortunately , that didn ` t happen . 
But he regrets that no formal attempt has been made to promote indigenous expertise . 
It would be helpful if Indian missions abroad could service visa requirements promptly . 
Hospitals hope that with the arrival of private insurance companies , medical centres will get accredited . 
'' We need an independent regulatory body to accredit our hospitals , '' says Dr Saxena . 
Union Health Minister C . 
Critics demand justification for the use of resources to benefit a few . 
It is for everyone and revenues from overseas patients reduces the burden on health institutions considerably . '' 
But enthusiasm won out . 
'' We were just four fellows who wanted to put up a play , '' explains Rehaan Engineer , Industrial 's director . 
Agamemnon , the group 's maiden venture , had been staged in the Sakshi Art Gallery . 
Kumar claims his group 's performances have met with a tremendous response . 
With news getting around , over 80 people have lined up to provide him their houses for performances . 
Company Theatre has held performances at the homes of actor Rajit Kapoor , director Manjul Sinha , writer Sanjeev Sharma and historian Shanta Gokhale . 
Theatre at home , no doubt , will help stage actors to expand base but finances are another matter . 
Unfortunately , some of them are a mockery of truth ... 
Terrorism and dialogue do not go together . '' 
True , Vajpayee was talking the domestic truth , he was talking the right thing at the wrong places . 
For , the political establishment in Pakistan needs India as the bogeyman for its own survival . 
A concubine swam free and lived to tell the tale . 
None of the 63 noble women of Bijapur survived to recount their horrific experience . 
Fearing that his wives would remarry after his death , the anxious general chose to kill them . 
Some say they were pushed into a deep well , while others say they fell to his sword . 
The diviners proved correct , for Khan did die in battle . 
During the past three years he has tested me and trusted me . 
I have been short tempered in the past but now I have moulded myself according to my job requirements . 
The Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs has proved a blessing in disguise for me . 
I have learned a lot from it . 
Have you got over it ? 
But during the past two years , I think I have succeeded in correcting this image . 
That is , Vajpayee doesn ` t have to match Musharraf in the art of demonology . 
Who are they ? 
What an elegant piece of political expression , this cattle imagery from the First Citizen of West Bengal ! 
What a singular human anguish in this animal kingdom ! 
Certainly not a slip of tongue . 
And certainly he is not referring to some kind of mad cow disease in Delhi . 
Whose interests do you serve now ? 
Both Atalji and Advaniji are BJP leaders and I serve both of them . 
They don ` t expect me to serve them personally . 
They don ` t like this language . 
But I must tell you whatever assignment they have given me I have done it with absolute sincerity . 
Rekhi thought it was a bomb . 
The terrible spectacle of Americanism was there in the towering flames , only for the eyes of the living . 
He is misreading the scriptures to understand the geomancy of his empire . 
Or , he is leafing through the antique work of revolution for a slogan against the imperialist . 
That is , ultimate horror for the civilised world , as it was in New York and Washington . 
It 's Prophet versus Pizza Hut . 
However , none of the scenarios had visualised the horrendous terrorist attacks on September 11 . 
But irrational and fanatical minds think alike . 
Mumbai in March 1993 was the seed from which New York 2001 was born . 
Catastrophic terrorist groups , like the Al Qaida of Osama bin Laden , do not use modern technologies . 
Like the CIA , the Indian intelligence community has also been strong in techint , but weak in humint . 
Other countries adopted it many years ago , but we have only recently woken up to the need for it . 
Rarely , if ever , has the strategic landscape in India 's neighborhood changed so dramatically because of events in the US . 
'' I don ` t want to make money cheating my customers , '' he insists . 
With such business practices , Ram ensures there 's always a rainbow over a grubby street in Old Delhi . 
I see Kabul only on television now . 
Today , it looks like a desert of ashes . 
There is talk of war in the air and once more my country has fallen victim to the great game of superpower politics . 
I served in the Afghan Army for 30 years before I left the country in 1992 , an eyewitness to history and horror . 
I blew my cover when I tried to debate politics with a minister and was arrested . 
Our Afghan spirit rebelled against the Soviet occupation but we had no choice . 
The man USA now hates is a snake they tried to keep hidden up their own sleeves . 
Cartilage is smooth so the bones effortlessly glide over it when we move . 
A liquid called synovial fluid further acts as a lubricant on the joint . 
Smooth cartilage is crucial for movement . 
In osteoarthritis , the cartilage is damaged and gets rough . 
Little wonder , of late Vajpayee has found it difficult to speak standing up . 
'' Obesity , '' stresses Rajagopal , '' is a major factor . '' 
Today we are asking it to change course by 180 degrees . 
Now do you concede that you require the US and its allies ' help to win the war ? 
Osama bin Laden has done certain things and the Taliban is connected . 
The world has to react . 
With the help of the global community the time taken to free Afghanistan would be less . 
However , it failed . 
The earthquake apart , Gujarat was yet to recover from the effects of the Kandla cyclone and two successive droughts . 
It is these issues that Modi will have to address in right earnest . 
It was during this period that the party was put on the political map at the grassroots level in Gujarat . 
'' Under Modi , the BJP is once again charged to take on the Congress , '' says Jayendrasinh Vaghela , a party worker . 
Artificial knees are said to last up to 20 years . 
So after surgery the prime-minister prime minister may well be spared this problem at least . 
INDIA TODAY learns that the report has three main points . 
And three , there might be some kind of penal action against Apollo , which the Health Ministry is still conjuring up . 
Kumaramangalam was admitted to Apollo on April 14 this year , suffering from a fever that hadn ` t abated in two weeks . 
He was kept there for nine days and a series of tests conducted . 
Much of the trilogy has moments which are the stuff of cinema . 
These were journeys without a map or a passport . 
Or like the encounter with a Taliban squad that could have been fatal . 
'' The Taliban court gave its verdict . 
I was to be shot dead on the morning of July 22 1995 , on the charge of disorderly behavior unbecoming of a woman ... 
Filmmakers are now queueing up at Bandopadhyay 's flat in the city 's eastern suburbs . 
Pakhtoon groups in India feel the film might trigger racial conflicts . 
I will not let my stories be filmed if this line gets blurred by the omission or commission of the filmmakers . '' 
Bandopadhyay and Khan live in a city far from Ground Zero of the western powers ' war on Islamic terrorism . 
She has embarked on her new project , a weekly Bangla magazine focusing on women 's rights . 
The Pashtoon factor came into play around the same time . 
So the ideological affinity of the jehad was reinforced by an ethnic camaraderie . 
It was the 1991 Gulf War which laid the basis for the Taliban phenomenon . 
He , it is learned , insisted on being treated for it , even though there were no symptoms . 
This mention of uncooperativeness , experts feel , will definitely help Apollo in its defense . 
That brings us to the action that is being contemplated against Apollo by the Health Ministry . 
But as things stand , it will not be easy for the Centre to take action against Apollo . 
The Delhi Government , on the basis of the report , can move to cancel Apollo 's licence . 
However , that may turn out to be a long legal wrangle , since Apollo is sure to take them to court . 
What will happen in the end is still unclear . 
But the report itself has brought no joy to the Kumaramangalam family . 
Yet , the wheels of justice must move rapidly so that the accused , if found guilty , are punished . 
We know this but between the prime-minister prime minister and Bill Gates we were reminded last week just how humiliatingly Third World we are . 
Who was he trying to fool ? 
Americans travel , so they know that countries like Indonesia and Thailand look better despite the economic crisis than India does without it . 
If Vajpayee 's visit was a success it was more to do with what his hosts had to say than anything he did . 
But then that must be the difference between First World speechwriters and Third World ones . 
Batohi led the evidence for the King Commission . 
There are difficulties but we hope to sort them out . '' 
The King Commission also wanted the Delhi Police to hand over certified official statements of their investigations . 
Batohi also raised questions about the legalities involved in tapping Cronje 's phone . 
They can have them once we file them in court . 
For its part , the Delhi Police told the South Africans that Cronje 's conversations were legally taped . 
Permission was taken to monitor the cell phone and the tapping began with the interception of threatening calls received by a Delhi businessman . 
In any case , the phone provided to Cronje by Chawla was purchased in Kalra 's name . 
The idea was to transform Gandhinagar from a chaotic mix of farmland and forests to a place befitting a state capital . 
Many of these sales have been in gross violation of allotment rules . 
Keshubhai owns one apartment , another houses a beauty parlor while yet another is up for sale . 
Keshubhai wasn ` t available for comment but a spokesman said that the chief minister had not violated any rules . 
'' When the chief minister was allotted the plot , a person could sell a plot after five years , '' he clarifies . 
When Chaudhary was allotted a 300 sq m plot in the early 1970s , Sector 1 was not a very posh location . 
At Rs 300 a sq m , a plot measuring 330 sq m cost just Rs 1 lakh . 
But in the open market that plot is now worth almost Rs 15 lakh . 
Similarly , an apartment complex is coming up on the plot belonging to Congress leader and former state finance minister Babubhai Meghji Shah . 
There are those , however , who have chosen to swim against the tide . 
Since the issue involves big names , officials are not willing to speak on the irregularities . 
But Chief Architect and Town Planner Deepak Mewada is silent on why his office has not reported the matter to the administration . 
Gandhinagar 's cupboards are full of such skeletons . 
Secondly , every new government showers a largesse of land with an eye on its vote bank . 
If a municipal body is set up , politicians will not be able to manipulate land allotments . 
But so long as lawmakers resist change , Gandhinagar will continue its descent into urban chaos . 
'' We want peace to be restored in West Bengal by any means , Central intervention if necessary , '' says Mamata . 
That 's many decibels below her shrill cry for President 's rule a few weeks back . 
However , this temporary lull is not to be mistaken for peace . 
With the stated objective of reclaiming alienated vote banks , Kesri called his own ascent a resurgence of the backward classes within the Congress . 
To further his cause , he turned against the man who made it possible for him to become party president . 
He humiliated P . 
That made him a soft target for Sonia loyalists who had by then swelled the Congress ranks . 
In between he ventured to conduct party polls and faced a challenge from younger leaders such as Sharad Pawar and Rajesh Pilot . 
Though he secured a convincing victory , the downward march had begun . 
The Sonia brigade didn ` t have to try much to author an unceremonious Kesri exit . 
There were public perception surveys that termed his leadership '' aged and jaded '' . 
They used the results for another leadership change . 
Sonia brought him back to the Congress Working Committee as a special invitee . 
His successor 's inability to bring the party to power led many Congress leaders to cry over his shoulders . 
When his house became a center of activity , Sonia grew suspicious and denied him a Rajya Sabha nomination early this year . 
The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government allowed him to retain the bungalow as a freedom fighter and redeemed his honor . 
The union is incensed by two new features in the incentive-package incentive package linked to the '' external environment '' . 
The first is an incentive related to the company 's ratio of the sales volume to its installed capacity . 
The Republicans are also likely to play up relations with Japan and get away from the Democrats ' obsession with China . 
The distancing from China may be good for India . 
India is hoping that Bush will lift the economic sanctions imposed by the US after the 1998 tests . 
The impact of the elections will be minimal . '' 
Like the rest of the world , India waits in exasperation to find out who to do business with after Clinton . 
Its future private sector managers may have a better luck . 
Not entirely because the name Mekong , according to some interpretations , is a linguistic variation of Ma Ganga . 
It 's about making the East a vital part of Indian foreign policy . 
Today , India as a dialogue partner no longer treats the ASEAN as a club of marginal influence . 
India has acquired the confidence to assert its legitimate Asian role , and it 's ready to reach out . 
The West , the natural ally , has already taken note , and the East , the civilisational ally , can not ignore . 
Vahini could not tell them that she was pregnant when they injected potent snake venom into her . 
Barely a month later , the mare gave birth to a young one with a suspected limb disorder . 
Soon after the delivery , Vahini went blind in the right eye and her left eye was partially damaged . 
ASVS is produced by first injecting snake venom into horses and then extracting their blood . 
Not any longer though . 
The tragic consequences of the overdose administered to Vahini have shaken up the institute . 
Earlier this month , the Tamil Nadu Government ordered the suspension of ASVS production at the institute for two months . 
At 100 , the King is ailing . 
With two food courts functional and a third in the works , Narayana Murthy is cooking for the future . 
As any corporate historian will tell you , the architecture of business has a tradition to it . 
Well over a century ago , the Scots who gave India its jute industry fashioned their mills in the image of Dundee . 
Basu 's abiding presence in the state 's political landscape is welcome to his bete noire , Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee . 
'' Bengal is being run by two chief ministers , '' she gleefully says . 
This is not the first time Nepalese citizens have reacted with outrage over an apparent insult . 
This completely innocuous remark was interpreted as an example of Indian expansionism . 
That a tiny country may be occasionally highly strung when encountering a gigantic neighbor is to be expected . 
Unfortunately , there is reason to believe that the public demonstrations in Nepal are not just innocent if misplaced anger . 
There is precious little that Indians can do to prevent such acts . 
The agency that is busy playing Nero is the Government of Nepal . 
So if Pakistan does a Pearl Harbour on India , it can cripple the Indian economy in one fell swoop . 
The armed-forces armed forces are livid that such vital strategic assets , particularly the two titanic petrochemical complexes were set up here . 
After all , the final responsibility for defending these assets lies with us , says a senior naval official . 
The strategic importance of this region should have been considered before making such huge investments . 
But the armed-forces armed forces fear that the tables could easily turn in a future conflict . 
Were playing a high risk game , warns a senior naval official . 
An example of such harmony is the Indus river water sharing accord of 1960 which has survived three wars between the two neighbors . 
But experience says that with Pakistan , it is better to be safe than sorry . 
And never got tired of it . 
The idea of sailing in a luxurious moving city and seeing new lands has caught the imagination of many Indians . 
As a senior executive from the cruising industry puts it , '' The desis have finally been hooked . '' 
But even on Ayodhya , there is only a small 20 per cent support for unilaterally constructing a Ram temple on the disputed site . 
This feeling is strongest among the illiterate . 
The flip side is the 5 per cent who want a mosque rebuilt . 
This includes nearly 20 per cent of Muslims . 
Among Muslims , support for these two options is as high as 62 per cent . 
More important , only some 14 per cent identify Ayodhya as the most important issue before the Vajpayee Government . 
Vajpayee , like P . 
Which is why he has chosen to outflank Ram with another winner , Lakshmi . 
That , in a sense , is the central message of this poll . 
Having tasted political stability , the voters are now crying out for performance that reflect on their daily lives . 
Nor does sentimentalism carry the day . 
Jyoti Basu doesn ` t prevail in West Bengal and Vajpayee is only a whisker away from being worsted by Sonia in up . 
Dravidian nationalism comes to Vajpayee 's help in Tamil Nadu and family past is no barrier to Sonia in Punjab . 
Stability , it would seem , has its charms . 
It gives people the space to reflect , experiment and mature . 
This poll is a pointer that in the coming days Indian politics may well become more demanding by becoming less turbulent . 
It is difficult work but is finally getting underway . 
Aeronautical Development Agency to be the nodal agency . 
It is agreed that two technology demonstration aircraft to be built before investments cleared for production . 
By Uday Mahurkar 
To students of history , Sanjan , A small town on the banks of the Varli river in south Gujarat , is quite familiar . 
This , they will tell you , is where the Parsis first landed in India after fleeing from Muslim invaders in Iran . 
Barely a kilometre away at Bhilwadi is a deep green mango tree , much less known , but equally old . 
It seemed she had ended the ambiguity about her faith on the banks of a river most sacred to Hindus . 
At the Shankaracharya 's camp , veteran leader N . 
That the party saw the dip as a piece of competitive mobilisation of Hindus wasn ` t left in doubt . 
The Mahakumbha can not be a monopoly of the VHP , asserted spokesman Anand Sharma . 
It will halt the alienation of Hindus from the Congress . '' 
Sonia 's Mahakumbha journey is in a way a triumph of his line . 
Last April he was dropped from the Congress Working Committee for suggesting the party rethink the basis of its secularism and socialism . 
Spin doctors place the latest riverside ritual in the continuum of Sonia 's efforts in the past two years to identify herself with Hindus . 
Two days later the CWC passed a resolution endorsing her viewpoint . 
'' The dip is aimed at drowning the propaganda against Sonia 's foreign origins , '' says a senior party functionary . 
'' It 's a feel good factor for party workers . 
In a letter , Gadgil urged Sonia to crown her Mahakumbha dip with a reiteration of her January 1999 statement . 
'' If pluralism is the source of secularism then Hinduism is nothing but pluralism . 
The party must emphasise it . '' 
If the dip has put the caste Hindu leaders in the party on overdrive , it has created disquiet among Muslim leaders . 
They also feel it would give a handle to rivals like the Samajwadi Party in up to wean away the community . 
His worry is the leaders who are pushing for soft Hindutva may now push harder to take more steps to placate Hindus . 
'' Next they will ask her to visit Somnath . 
On record Muslim leaders are stoic and project Sonia 's dip as an act of faith . 
Former UPCC president Salman Khurshid says , '' Muslims have taken it in their stride . 
Sonia visited Ali Mia at Nadwa . 
Her Sangam trip is personal . '' 
Even M . 
He recalls both Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi visited the Kumbha when they were prime-minister prime minister . 
'' Allahabad is after all home to them . '' 
The dip has certainly changed the mood at the party headquarters on 24 Akbar Road . 
Gone is the secular belligerence that marked the atmosphere during December 's furore over Ayodhya . 
Seven years ago , on September 30 1993 , his village was the epicentre of a 6.4 tremblor . 
The quake flattened 52 villages in the two districts of Latur and Osmanabad . 
Legade 's wife and two sons were among the dead . 
Those few seconds brought down all four houses and killed her . 
But such efforts have not been able to help people like Legade overcome their trauma . 
He can ` t seek refuge in the house allotted to him as it could collapse upon him . 
Legade now suffers from insomnia and anxiety . 
'' What is the solution to all this ? '' 
For what catches the eye are the corrugated tin sheds built by the villagers adjoining nearly all these 3COMMA000 houses . 
Most of them have slept in these sheds ever since the quake , using the concrete houses only for cooking and recreation . 
For the villagers the tin sheds mark an abdication of faith in concrete structures . 
The floors and ceilings are poorly finished . 
In other houses , huge cracks have begun snaking through the walls . 
Poor construction is evident even in the villages reconstructed by donor agencies . 
The reason ? 
Indeed , wheat farmers are also faced with an impending glut . 
Experts feel the crisis is an opportune time for drastic steps . 
Then , as Joshi suggests , a common national market must be developed for foodgrains . 
The region accounts for more than 25 per cent of the total potato produced in the country . 
But the bumper potato crop this year has queered the pitch . 
But Sen was asked to stay back and Dayal given a surprising extension . 
But the MEA changed its mind and sent Prasad to the US and tipped Ponappa for the post of ambassador to Thailand . 
There were murmurs too over the decision to send R . 
But MEA officials defend the decision saying it was not an unusual posting . 
This , in turn , has the potential of jeopardising political stability after the state assembly elections in April . 
The gains from the relative peace along the Line of Control have been offset by widespread civil disturbances in Srinagar . 
It is not clear whether the pacification of Kashmir is part of a domestic initiative or an aspect of wider international diplomacy . 
The linkages haven ` t been spelt out . 
Hardly the best way to approach a problem of this magnitude . 
The enemy never sleeps for the culturally paranoid . 
In his personal life too , he was a stickler for decency . 
During his ministerial days , he never allowed the official car to enter the airport tarmac for him after a flight . 
Instead he 'd take the airline coach . 
What happened to them ? 
Apparently , it was climatic changes or natural calamities that compelled Aharites to quit farming which might not have remained remunerative in that area . 
Lalti Pandey of the Institute of Rajasthan Studies says of these people that '' they knew of iron smelting and manufactured iron implements '' . 
Two iron smelting furnaces have been found in Balathal in this phase . 
It is around this period 's layer that the fifth skeleton was found . 
In Mewar , there is a long and continuous history of human habitation . 
Secondly , even the 9.5 rate of return isn ` t too bad if one considers that it is tax free . 
The Government 's move to align these rates with the cost of living will bring down interest rates across the board . 
But that will be temporary . 
It is the kind of politics that puts the interests of some pathetic political party or leader over the interests of India . 
Apart from the concern that another bomber had made a suicidal attack , the police noted that he had come from Birmingham , UK . 
This wasn ` t the first instance of the UK being used as a safe haven by terrorists . 
The new enactment , however , broadens its scope and prohibits the use of British soil for indulging in terrorism outside its geographical confines . 
Besides , it also bans the practice of any religious activity that incites violence . 
But that was only part of the story . 
An entire generation has been assured that 1971 will be avenged . 
Nothing ever happened . 
To Pakistanis , the fate of the report is a mystery . 
Judging by the complaints emanating from some of his ministers he would be doing his own Government a huge favor . 
Every trick from persistent rumors about his arrest to defaults with supporting banks were tried out . 
The timing didn ` t seem to work . 
The idea was simple . 
The bears knew that Parekh and the other bulls were being funded by a clutch of banks . 
The bear plan was to hammer stocks and force bulls to fork out money to keep prices afloat . 
In the bargain , at every fall , the bears earned a bonus out of short sales . 
The rumors too helped the bears , hammering down the benchmark and adding to the pressure . 
But what most Congress leaders fear is that the departure of 12 partymen will open the doors to more dissidents . 
'' We need to close ranks against the Left Front , '' Mamata said the day the Congressmen joined her party . 
'' Let 's do it now or we 'll never get the chance again . '' 
As a welcome gift , she threw in tickets for eight of the nine MLAs . 
With just eight weeks to go for the polls , many of Mamata 's aides have discovered they will not get tickets . 
This has led to acrimony within the party . 
The evening before the final list was rumored to be announced , Trinamool contingents from six districts laid siege to party headquarters in Kolkata . 
But they do bring along thousands of grassroots workers . 
'' If there are any more defections from the Congress , '' says a Trinamool leader , '' the nomination list will explode . '' 
They are like fish out of water . 
It worked and those who benefited from kickbacks earlier are desperate . 
Now lets face it , we have a tried and tested method for defense procurement . 
At the entry point itself you have to prove your product 's worth . 
However , to say that the whole system is rotten and porous is rubbish . 
My house doesn ` t even have a gate . 
I have never accepted security in my life . 
And I will never close my doors to anybody . 
I use only a bedroom in my house . 
The rest is for others . 
The Samata Party has its office here and all kinds of people come and go . 
The camera doesn ` t show it . 
And in fact she is quoted as saying that if there was any injustice done to anybody such people could approach us . 
As far as I know she has never done it . 
I have always fought against injustice in all its forms and I will continue to do so . 
It was a scandal waiting to happen , aching to happen , and yet it came as a shock . 
He knew that change was desperately required and yet he did nothing at all to change anything . 
Anybody who believes that it is only the defense deals in which this sort of thing happens is sadly mistaken . 
Every government department functions only when it is well oiled with the grease of corruption . 
Naturally , there are some ministries in which it is possible to make more money than in others . 
Could Vajpayee have changed things ? 
Not that George has been personally compromised by a suitcase . 
But George has been compromised by power , and it happens with streetfighters . 
This time melancholy and martyrdom are not going to define his abdication of power . 
Resignation is not the same as renunciation , despite his telegenic rhetoric on sacrifice . 
It can be seen only as one millstone falling from Vajpayee 's neck . 
It should not have happened so soon . 
For , in the beginning , the BJP in power marked a redeeming break from the predictability of power . 
Someone had to show that all politicians are not rapscallions , that change means hope regained . 
Singh argued that the PMO had no hand in it . 
The facts are somewhat different . 
It was on the recommendation of this group operating within the PMO that the recast TRAI gave the green signal to WLL use . 
It took just four weeks for the decision taken in Singh 's room to be processed in the dot and reach TRAI for consultation . 
The Government decision was decried by all major cellular operators , though nobody had the courage to point a finger at the PMO . 
If he has still survived in power , it is because of his great capacity to outsmart even powerful enemies . 
The duo was accused , among other things , of cosying up to MNCs . 
Ahluwalia then got shunted out of the Finance Ministry to the nondescript Planning Commission . 
But Singh was too high for the Sangh 's reach . 
At the beginning of November 1984 , George had declared assets of Rs 1.56 lakh . 
At the end of the check period , his assets had jumped to Rs 18.81 lakh , a gain of Rs 17.25 lakh . 
This was Rs 9.61 lakh more than what he said he saved . 
After December 1990 , George started drawing a monthly salary of Rs 5COMMA000 from the AICC . 
Suddenly , gift cheques began pouring into his various bank accounts in Delhi . 
Between November 1991 and December 1992 he received Rs 2.36 crore in three instalments . 
Another Rs 1.46 crore arrived in four instalments between March 1995 and November 1999 . 
The extra income generated through her firms Lillien Exports and Diana Agencies is a mystery . 
There is no record of these companies ever employing a single individual nor is there any serious documentation . 
And so too here , as we capitulated to be all out for 391 , sacrificing a total in excess of 500 . 
'' It happens all the time . 
There were other friction points . 
Mohan , however , insists that he abstained from casting this particular vote . 
That allows brokers to start trading in those shares without the knowledge of the investor who owns them . 
Online broking , though still in a very nascent stage , holds promise of faster information to the investor . 
That could reduce the chances of rigging and manipulation by middlemen to some extent . 
That is solely the job of the regulator . 
The evaporation of the savings of thousands of small investors is bound to have some impact on consumer demand . 
The perception of having lost wealth on the market will hold back some purchase decisions , especially of consumer durable products . 
Sharada Raju , the artist being feted , has certainly not enjoyed too many happy moments in life . 
But through it all , Sharada continues to paint . 
She has painted with a drip needle inserted into one arm . 
Once she had a heart attack while painting . 
She has even finished a painting in the run up to a heart surgery . 
The painter 's troubles started almost a decade after her marriage in 1977 . 
Doctors were forced to perform a hysterectomy , taking away forever her ability to conceive . 
That was only the beginning . 
Then abdominal cancer was diagnosed . 
Soon after , she suffered a mild heart attack . 
She had been married when she was 17 . 
Then she remembered a childhood wish . 
Let us respect a country 's right to its own opinion . 
But who 's footing the bill ? 
The 52 tickets on the United Airlines flight were bought by Vinod Gupta , a millionaire NRI . 
Reliance Industries , Mahindra and Mahindra and Raymonds have provided chartered flights in the Gujarat sector . 
Part of the security is being provided by the Government of India and various state governments . 
The Taj is the official caterer of the tour and chef Satish Arora will take care of Clinton 's food preferences throughout the trip . 
At the Taj Ummed in Ahmedabad , Clinton liked his late Indian dinner so much that it lasted a good three hours . 
'' I had always dreamt of becoming a doctor , dancer or an artist , '' she recalls . 
Bharatnatyam was her first choice , but her frail body was obviously not up to it . 
Medical studies , too , were ruled out . 
So , she took up painting . 
Her first painting was a picture of Lord Ganesha on canvas the size of Reader 's Digest magazine . 
The senior Raju was impressed . 
In a testimonial written five years ago , he described her as an '' accomplished artist '' . 
He has been elected an MP six times . 
Yet , Gogoi , 65 , is not overtly ambitious . 
The only controversy he has been dragged into is the accusation by Mahanta himself , of a nexus with the ULFA . 
'' I manage 20 minutes of exercises daily to beat the stress , '' he says . 
Can he beat Mahanta too ? 
It continues to cause plenty of heartburn to bus and autorickshaw drivers and commuters alike . 
'' This is where , '' alleges RFAT 's managing director Sheetal Singh , '' the scam began to take root . '' 
Singh refused and claims he is now paying the price for saying no . 
Subsequently , says Singh , the IIP refused to issue him a certificate clearing his CNG kit . 
There is , however , evidence to prove that things may not have been all above board . 
At the time the company did not have a background in such technology and hadn ` t even submitted a proposal for the order . 
'' The ASI is much better funded than we are to maintain the monuments , '' says a state government official . 
Amid the neglect the citadels that were symbols of a fierce independent spirit are beginning to look more like monuments to official apathy . 
This evening of female hedonism is the festival of Dhinga Ganwar , celebrated about a month after Holi . 
She is a yogi whose only ambition is to touch the reassuring hand of God through devotion and works of arts . '' 
Governor Rama Devi also chose an exhibition of Sharada 's works at the inauguration of a kalyana mandapam built by her father . 
When Sharada is not painting gods , she does miniatures of birds and portraits of women and elephants on old Jaipur stamp papers . 
All her paintings are done with natural vegetable and earth colors she makes herself . 
'' I chose painting to forget the pain . 
Two more homes raided , 59 rescued . 
He will move focus from Delhi to the Sangh 's traditional headquarters in Nagpur . 
While some interpret this as a dramatic shift , the Sangh itself sees it as the culmination of a gradual corrective process . 
If India is to emerge from poverty and despair , we will have to rely on the initiative of citizens and civil society . 
Fortunately , more and more people are becoming aware of this . 
Ordinary citizens continue to face the brunt of the inspector raj . 
An AGP worker and a police constable are killed . 
Das sustained serious injuries . 
There is panic and confusion in the ruling AGP camp , as also in that of their new ally , the BJP . 
She was fielded with a view to bulldoze even diehard Sonia loyalists into voting for a '' minority woman '' . 
To emphasise this point , the dissidents also endorsed Kapil Sibal 's candidature for the post of Rajya Sabha secretary . 
Earlier this year , Sibal had publicly lambasted the Sonia coterie . 
Not surprisingly one of AIIMS 's strong points is the excellent and internationally acclaimed research in biomedical sciences . 
It also offers an unmatched atmosphere . 
'' Being with the best students and learning from ace clinicians is extremely inspiring , '' says Priyank Jain , an intern . 
It 's this inspiration that keeps AIIMS hale and hearty and flying high . 
We could have saved several lives if the administration had not taken two months to pass a tender . '' 
The state Government has recently cleared the tender for supplying foodgrain to the 933 villages from May 15 . 
Ministerial and VIP visits have got us nothing but promises . '' 
True , there may be instances when the media is more sensational and less revealing in its criticism of the judiciary . 
Then , the judiciary too tends to be oversensitive towards criticism . 
The law of contempt is meant to be invoked in the rarest of cases . 
It is not a weapon to silence criticism but a law to protect the dignity of the court . 
And the privileges of democracy have made this law in many countries rather redundant . 
The trade union leaders too claim credit for setting the privatisation process in order in their own way . 
Sometimes you have to spend money on unexpected repair of such cars . '' 
'' The labor unions had provided me a list of 25 demands . 
I only had to persuade the BALCO management to discuss them , '' informs Rao . 
Union leaders claim that 24 of their 25 demands have been met . 
But a closer scrutiny shows that this is not the case . 
BALCO has agreed to freeze transfers for a year and assured against '' mala fide transfers '' . 
However , we are approaching the whole thing positively . 
But we need to see India 's approach before we can go into specifics . 
For instance , the date of the talks . 
That will be our number one priority . 
Rebuilding is always a tough task . '' 
Mascarenhas has built this business from small beginnings as a salesman for radio spots on CBS in the US in 1981 . 
'' I 'd never represented a player before . 
There are also allegations from Sri Lanka of the Board being bribed . 
This also ends a silly drama , the playwrights of which were some of Mamata 's lieutenants in Kolkata . 
BJP leaders were mystified . 
Nobody wanted her back , they said . 
Planted stories and selective leaks notwithstanding , Mamata is back to square one . 
We will discuss the reports of these committees and then see . 
Newspapers carry daily reports of kidnapping , murder and loot . 
Chennai journalists are green with envy at the access the network enjoys since Amma returned to power . 
The philosophy of Khalistan will continue whether I am there or not . 
For casuals I buy something from Cotton World or Benetton , for formals I prefer Versace , Gabbana , Armani and Tommy Hilfiger . '' 
Actually Indians have been aping the West since the British era ; only it is more pronounced now . '' 
Instead they choose cool limes , ambers and brackish greys . 
General Musharraf needs a dialogue with India . 
He will use his visit to establish his legitimacy internationally and among his own people . 
It would be a grave folly to agree to any such proposal . 
Pakistan is engaged in destabilisation throughout India . 
It uses Nepal and Bangladesh to spread fundamentalism , terrorism and separatism in India . 
The essence of good diplomacy lies in expanding cooperation while firmly making our concerns known . 
Once married to Umrao Jaan director Muzaffar Ali , she 's no stranger to films . 
Those regal robes fit her nicely . 
Not for nothing that she said yes . 
Kamal Haasan is digging into his bag of tricks again . 
Back home , Border director J . 
A kindly shopkeeper dragged her into his shop and pulled the shutters down but the gunfire frightened the little girl who started crying . 
The girl was dead before anyone could tell what was happening . 
This kind of thing happens too often in the Kashmir Valley for this incident to be considered an aberration . 
What also serves their cause is the abject inability of the Vajpayee Government to articulate anything that could be described as a Kashmir policy . 
We can only hope one of the fallouts of the summit will be that this will change . 
Or we are doomed to watching the General 's '' freedom fighters '' increasingly perpetrate their evil deeds . 
We keep hearing that we are winning the war against terrorism . 
But in Kashmir there are no signs of peace and innocent people continue to die . 
This is India 's real Kashmir problem . 
To stop violence a dialogue is necessary . 
For a dialogue congenial atmosphere and mutual trust are needed . 
I am very serious about this . 
We will talk . 
Willingness on both sides to talk to solve the problems is important . 
They demanded that you be made prime-minister prime minister . 
Any reason ? 
My party has elected me the leader . 
But I am sincere , this may have created their confidence . 
Will they cooperate ? 
I am confident of everybody 's support . 
But let me settle down first . 
He had to say that in the wake of the media blitzkrieg by the '' hurt '' and '' disappointed '' General Pervez Musharraf . 
But there was only silence . 
Still , a statement is not the same as talking to the nation . 
Was he then deliberately underplaying Agra ? 
Even if '' quiet diplomacy '' is the answer for the moment , it can not be the full answer . 
And the question of transparency in the affairs of the nation has relevance beyond Agra . 
For a country that takes pride in its democratic maturity , this institutionalised discomfort with information is a glaring incongruity . 
Not for a country like India . 
Liberalisation of information is the obligation of any democracy that has nothing to hide . 
Even Chief Minister Digvijay Singh called to congratulate her . 
The episode ended with the channel that claimed the scoop running grovelling apologies for 24 hours . 
Some people now say this was only a ruse to flush Govindacharya out of his retreat . 
First , up Chief Minister Rajnath Singh went uninvited to greet Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav on his birthday . 
Good , now history will only remember him as the man who allowed the Babri Masjid to be pulled down . 
And although we hear about dramatic changes we do not see them . 
As for what they call '' social infrastructure '' by which is usually meant health and education it remains disgraceful . 
To which we really need to ask how he is measuring this . 
Usually anyone who can write his name is considered literate . 
But is this all we want in an age of computer literacy ? 
But it is the surveillance capabilities that will give the ANC its teeth . 
This is significant as the radar location is near Myanmar 's Coco Islands . 
India has aworrisome neighbor to its west . 
By setting up the ANC , it seeks to reduce the likelihood of surprises on its eastern flank . 
We will never break the dialogue . 
We will continue to talk as long as the NSCN is willing '' says an official . 
In fact the Government is now keen to widen the ambit of its dialogue in the Northeast . 
It wants to talk to all the insurgent groups . 
Learning from its Manipur experience , the Government has already begun extensively consulting the chief ministers of the region . 
Officials say Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee himself spoke to these leaders on the modalities of negotiating with the insurgent groups . 
The former Meghalaya chief minister , who is now a member of the Constitution Review Committee , looks forward to his new assignment . 
'' I would like to make some contribution to establishing peace in the Northeast , '' he says . 
We will cooperate with him , '' says a now pleased Jamir who is on the proposed panel . 
The optimism of the Government in initiating peace in the Northeast is not shared by those who follow insurgency in the region . 
They feel the Nagas can ` t be taken for granted . 
Which is why if the dialogue collapses , the Northeast may once again come in the grip of another spell of violence . 
It is a race against the clock which they could still win . 
The presence of two players in Olympic competition is the result of long hours of grunt work come to fruition . 
The Indian fight squad recognises that source itself . 
There used to be a time when an Indian name in a boxing draw would draw a yawn . 
Twice on a recent training tour to Cuba , heavyweight Gurcharan Singh found that his opponents had failed to turn up . 
Two knockouts inside a minute on his last trip had made quite an impact . 
Think what the cost of bribes must be at our state government level if municipal officials ask for Rs 75 lakh ? 
Well , why bother when we all know that by the time it gets to the Centre , we speak of crores not lakhs . 
Tehelka was not even the tip of the dung heap , it was only a small whiff . 
Another interesting facet of the story is that it comes from one of our poorest states . 
Instead , it goes into the pockets of officials who in a less humane society would have been shot for stealing public money . 
There is no point then in throwing our hands up in horror every time there is a UTI type scam . 
Swadeshi Jagran Manch Convener S . 
It has a way of finding communal conspiracies in cultural traditions . 
And it is good at making the word fascism sound so familiar . 
Hence Vande Mataram is a national imposition , Sanskrit is a Hindu dialect with no cultural relevance ... 
Secularly modern doesn ` t mean that you have to repudiate your cultural or civilisational heritage , that religious rhymes with communal . 
And of Vedic astrology as a subject , it is perhaps as relevant and academically rewarding as gender studies . 
Conditions at Hyderabad 's famous Salar Jung Museum are no better than those in Mumbai and Chennai . 
These are Indians who have risen above their circumstances , forged by the white heat of contest , grown extraordinary by their sport . 
This is your team . 
Man 's best friend is in actuality , studies indicate , one of his most vicious killers . 
Out of these 30COMMA000 die a slow , torturous death due to rabies . 
India has the dubious distinction of being the country where 70 per cent of all rabies deaths in the world happens . 
In contrast China records 1COMMA000 deaths due to rabies every year and the United Kingdom none . 
Indira belonged to an age of absolute majorities , an age when the Constitution was a negotiable instrument and an age of regulated information . 
She would have been dangerously out of place in today 's fractured polity and media intrusiveness . 
Perhaps that is why her real elevation to the status of Durga is entirely posthumous . 
In the imagined Indira , the people of India identify resolve , strength and patriotic ruthlessness . 
She wouldn ` t have stomached the insults , digested the assaults on nationhood and capitulated to the blackmailers and hijackers . 
A PhD on the primates of Assam behind him , Choudhury is currently pursuing a Doctor of Science degree from Gauhati University . 
'' My agenda also includes Bhutan , eastern Nepal , southern Tibet , north and western Myanmar and eastern Bangladesh , '' he says . 
That 's some project for this man on a singular mission . 
But his convictions , having already brought him this far , may take him all the way . 
The hackers signed off as Dr Neukar and Da Libran and scrawled abusive cyber graffiti on the website . 
The police undid the damage in about an hour . 
Three days later , the hackers struck again . 
Both belonged to cyber cafes in Dadar . 
The low incidence of rabies worldwide is having a serious impact in India as far as availability of vaccines is concerned . 
There are two rabies vaccines available . 
The trouble is , this vaccine is known to generate allergic reactions and in rare cases even causes paralysis . 
The other recommended thing is to wash the bite wound with water and soap . 
This simple act , doctors add , can reduce the risk of rabies by 30 per cent . 
Lastly , never become complacent if you learn that the dog that has bitten you has been inoculated . 
Studies show that inoculation of dogs only has a success rate of about 50 per cent . 
Looks like the web police has finally arrived . 
Really , going by those Red Fort performances , India should have reached superpowerhood years ago . 
And one more ritual at the Red Fort last Wednesday . 
He will turn '' every stone '' of this land for a better India . 
In a country where just 25 per cent of roads are motorable , the benefits of such a project are incalculable . 
He has advanced the deadline for the first phase of the program to 2003 from 2004 . 
Is it worth the truth ? 
And here comes the ethics question , the limits of pursuit . 
Are methods that are not socially or legally acceptable journalistically acceptable ? 
The Gotcha morality of the tabloids will say dammit . 
But responsible journalism , or quality journalism , can not afford to be independent of ethics . 
The best example is the American quality press , whose almost fanatical obsession with ethics is born of a sense of fairness . 
India , of course , has no such option . 
Till recently , the only government officials allowed to retain government employees in their personal service after retirement were prime ministers . 
Service chiefs were equated to cabinet secretaries . 
Admiral Kumar , meanwhile , retires in four months . 
The fortuitous bestowing of Man Fridays is sheer coincidence . 
So he wants a probe into the note . 
For its part , Shelter Now denies that its staff was trying to convert Afghans . 
Suspects don ` t get legal representation . 
The Taliban has said the aid workers will be put on trial . 
Despite financial problems , Meeta and her husband , a driver in Mauritius , arrived in India and later left quite contented . 
Clearly , initiative and collaboration between the government and medical authorities may be the right prescription . 
Alternative venues have given drama in the city a new energy . 
Kumar organises plays twice a month with wife Sheela Chadha . 
Private bungalows and apartments , dilapidated godowns , boutiques and art galleries are not beyond the creative grasp of these actors . 
It is ingenuity born more of compulsion than choice in a city where the premium on space is high . 
Kashipur , about 400 km from the state capital Bhubaneswar , falls in one of the state 's poorest districts . 
When the rains are good , they are able to grow some crops . 
At other times , they scour for food and do odd jobs . 
The hunger of the tribals is the least of their concerns . 
The revelations considerably eroded the website 's moral authority . 
Yet neither Mamata 's reinduction into the NDA nor Tehelka 's unedifying methods can herald Fernandes ' acquittal . 
The commission is looking at 14 defense deals and has so far examined only two witnesses . 
But official acceptance of responsibility for its upkeep is not too evident . 
The tombstones are scarred by graffiti , and people often come to the shady spot for rest or boisterous fun . 
He laments that there is not even a proper road leading to the monument . 
Apart from Bijapur '' City of Victory '' , has 50 mosques and 20 historic tombs . 
But the asi has no money to protect them . 
Today , at home with his wife , Rekhi can ` t believe he got away without a scratch . 
Gunjan calls it a miracle . 
The Rekhis will never forget the day . 
Neither will New York . 
In a land devoted to trivia and statistics , the most singular reflection of terror appeared on the most unlikely mirror . 
The last time this happened was on June 6 1944 , the day of the Normandy landings in World War II . 
It revived memories of why the US had gone to war at all . 
The destruction of WTC was '' this generation 's Pearl Harbour '' . 
However , it is not clear whether this shift towards multilateralism would be temporary or more enduring . 
They are like family now , '' says Ram , whose great grandfather set up the shop four generations ago . 
In those days , gloats Ram , their clientele included the Mughals . 
Ram even loads bangles in sacks and makes house calls if there 's a special request . 
Ram 's fame has spread far from his little shop . 
He gets orders from the US and Europe . 
He has even been invited to attend Indian festivals in Paris and Los Angeles . 
Unlike others of his tribe , Ram 's speciality is that he designs and crafts the bangles himself . 
Yoga is the method , and it will instil confidence in her , the sadhu says . 
At the end of the exercise she will be adept at keeping her nerves under control . 
Laloo and Arafat both donated blood . 
Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel , with his great experience in handling calamities and relief operations , could hardly sit back and do nothing . 
So the Gujarat Government decided to despatch about 250 doctors to New York . 
The sudden surge in his weight was traced to the 2 kg silver sword he had been presented earlier on at the function . 
His death was a mortal blow to the front , but with the US going after the Taliban it quickly regrouped its forces . 
To fill the void left by Masood , the front adopted a collegiate approach . 
Much like the Queen of England , President Burhanuddin Rabbani continues to remain a titular head . 
Mohammed Fahim Khan , Masood 's trusted lieutenant , has taken his place as defense minister . 
Like Masood , he belongs to the Panjshir Valley and has served him for over 20 years . 
'' I am only a gear which has been added for better coordination . '' 
Whether Keshubhai will rise to the occasion is a matter of speculation . 
As is the question of whether he will be able to make any difference . 
The BJP had to suffer the ignominy of seeing a Congress Patel defeating a BJP Patel under a Patel chief minister . 
In Sabarkantha , Keshubhai was taken to task on a different count . 
Seated on a charpoy in his battered shanty in Delhi , he takes on the role of a spokesperson for his people 's misery . 
Bhatt does not wave away the flies buzzing around him , unmoved as they flirt with his turban . 
Muscat and Dubai ... '' 
From a trunk he fishes out a letter of commendation from the Smithsonian Institution in Washington DC . 
There we will be at the receiving end of gunfire from both sides . 
It 's better to die that way than live like this . '' 
As demonstrated by the success of Vajpayee 's US visit , the move is beginning to pay returns . 
There is restiveness in the backward Hindi heartland and eastern India over the growing disparity between regions . 
At the same time , the more successful states are resentful of having to subsidise their more slothful counterparts . 
There has been almost no attempt to sell them politically . 
Even the enormous populist potential of disinvestment hasn ` t been exploited by a party committed to dismantling socialism . 
He has made many right moves but without explaining why . 
The larger goal behind the painful process of structural adjustment has been left unaddressed . 
Nor have his ministers undertaken the task . 
It 's this fundamental insecurity , masked in a cloak of sycophancy , that is preventing the Government from grasping its underlying vulnerability . 
By Sayantan Chakravarty 
It was like watching the Pied Piper at work . 
As things stand in the Cronje case , there is a long way to go . 
The chargesheet can not be filed within this year . 
The Delhi Police applied for a LR in July and had it routed through diplomatic channels only in the first week of September . 
Among the requests from the Indians are details of Cronje 's bank accounts and printouts of his telephone conversations in South Africa . 
Simultaneously , Interpol in England has been asked to locate Chawla . 
Batohi has promised that the Indian requests will be expedited on her return . 
The Delhi Police have found the King Commission 's work very useful . 
'' All statements and confessions corroborate our evidence , including the statements by bookies , '' adds Sharma . 
Her husband K . 
The mother of Olympic medal winner Malleshwari can not stop smiling . 
Lifting was also a sport that could help the girls improve their lives . 
Manohar couldn ` t complete school but got a job in the RPF because he was a capable football and volleyball player . 
To get the Marxists out of power before the elections is not easy though and is quite impossible unless the Congress changes its strategy . 
Perhaps it is the nature of the activity . 
But it is rare in international espionage , or for that matter international crime , for an event to be taken at face value . 
But Rajan 's appearance in court is not being viewed as a simple case of the law taking its course . 
Perhaps the truth will prove stranger . 
This cool calculator behind the chessboard could well do for Indian women 's chess what Vishwanathan Anand did for the men . 
Urumqi , it must be emphasised , is scarcely one of China 's leading cities . 
In a ranking of urban centres , it would qualify as China 's Patna or Guwahati , if not lower . 
Sir Aurel Stein , the archaeologist , called the region Serindia , Seres being an old word for China . 
Backed by newly free Central Asian neighbors and groups in Pakistan and Afghanistan , the violence took Beijing by surprise . 
First came the brutal military tactics . 
The militancy 's back was more or less broken , diplomats in Beijing say , by 1998 . 
Pakistan was spoken to . 
In the Great Gameshow of nations , after all , there may be no third lifeline . 
Yet , whenever the question of reforming our decrepit judicial system comes up we find all the main players take up defensive positions . 
Even those in Ananth Kumar 's camp admit that all is not well . 
'' It is time to inject young blood in the unit , '' says Sampath Raj , one of them . 
The way things are , the schism is only getting wider . 
And all because two Kumars want to win some brownie points . 
The Kashmiri militant group was always described as dreaded and hardcore . 
Delhi was nervous for different reasons . 
And , they do . 
It is because of corrupt officials and politicians that our most sacred rivers have become sewers . 
Crores of rupees have been washed down the Ganga because the action plan to clean it leaked like a sieve . 
Our only hope lies in making the justice system work as it should . 
As an ordinary citizen may I make a few simple suggestions ? 
The international isolation predicted after the Pokhran nuclear tests now appears a remote prospect . 
Yet if diplomacy has been the Vajpayee regime 's success story in the past 12 months , economics is the Achilles ' heel . 
The Standard and Poor 's frown is a result of the Indian Government 's sloth on reforms , particularly disinvestment . 
In April this year , the prime-minister prime minister received reports from four advisory committees he had set up . 
Instead , it fell upon the Supreme Court to prevent the capitulation . 
The trauma of Rajkumar 's family and his numerous fans is understandable but even they must be getting exasperated by Veerappan 's games . 
Otherwise , it is not beyond the arsenal of the Indian state to preserve both Rajkumar 's life and his country 's dignity . 
The prevailing nationhood , it said , was too '' white '' , too English and by definition excluded Black and Asian Britons . 
Defining Britain , on the other hand , is a respect for authority , a fetish for privacy and a fanatical commitment to courtesies . 
However nebulous , there is something called a national character that verges on the mystical . 
There is an imagined nation that exists above both the law and popular icons . 
What matters is the minority 's desire to seek emotional compatibility with the imagined nation and the majority 's readiness to be inclusive . 
If taken to its logical conclusion the proposal has the potential to vitalise India 's comatose privatisation program . 
The Supreme Court 's verdict should put the seal on the Narmada debate 
When completed , the project will irrigate 18 lakh hectares of parched land and generate 1COMMA450 MW of electricity . 
The global debate on big dams has added to the obstacles , causing the World Bank to withdraw from the project . 
The ceasefire call helps the Hizb in its battle for supremacy over other militant groups . 
The Government saw advantages for itself as well . 
The fact that Salahuddin endorsed the ceasefire call from Pakistani soil is not without significance . 
Its Flex brand of shoes had become popular in India two decades before Bata was a household name . 
It can not be called a retirement scheme because of a stay order on VRS from the high court . 
The VSS is unlikely to attract the employees , who come to the work place only to sign the register . 
Many of them are housed in the 600 residential quarters that the founders had built . 
The salaries , though irregular , are guaranteed . 
VSS is made further unattractive because there hasn ` t been a pay revision since 1987 . 
'' The staff are expecting a better severance package , '' admits divisional manager S . 
It 's a tall order , considering the average monthly salary of Rs 4COMMA916 , which is the highest in the industry . 
However , keeping the company on the oxygen of state funds , after having spent Rs 298 crore , borders on necrophilia . 
There isn ` t a single MBA on its staff . 
The brass ' current chief agenda is to persuade the Union Textile Ministry into a new financial commitment . 
They could not make the company earn a rupee in profit even when its line of credit with the bank was open . 
It was a blunder to nationalise an ailing business that had lost its moorings after its British founders left . 
A new inflow of taxpayer 's money will complete the deathwish . 
The rice was coarse , the mutton had a stale taste to it and the food was cold . 
It was time for other thoughts , for other celebrations . 
The shift has not come without American pressure on both India and Pakistan . 
It began during Clinton 's March visit when Kashmir figured high on the agenda . 
In such a situation , it would be difficult for the security forces to adhere to the conditions of the ceasefire agreement . 
It is therefore an agreement whose fate could well have been sealed even before it has been given a real chance . 
By S . 
The temples came up in the 1970s and the latest one was constructed this year . 
One of the temple committee members spoke of rectifying Sher Shah 's building agenda . 
Sasaram , known for its communal unease , doesn ` t need a reassessment of Sher Shah 's religious policy . 
According to Muhammed K . 
'' If anybody wants to stop the building work , he will do so at his own risk , '' warns Prasad . 
'' Our stand is very clear , '' she says , '' We have to protect the monument against illegal construction . 
We hope the state Government does something soon . 
Otherwise a court case will remain the only option . '' 
And we all know how long this can take . 
By Sayantan Chakravarty Coincidences rarely get more intriguing . 
The numbers at Thimpu and Gangtok were , astonishingly , not just the same . 
His agency is the sole distributor in Sikkim with 28 lotteries . 
The incident has brought the trade 's seamier aspects to the fore . 
Among the facts unearthed by the Crime Branch were that the society had printed only 2.4 lakh of the proposed 24 lakh tickets . 
MLA claims that the draws of April 18 were a coincidence . 
No prize winner has ever complained , it says . 
As for trying to bring pressure on parliamentarians in the committee , he says , '' We don ` t pressure them . 
So the machinery could not be moved out to either of HIL 's existing facilities in Maharashtra and Kerala . 
The company is moving the Delhi unit to Bhatinda in Punjab , but without the DDT facility . 
This is in deference to the state Government 's objection . 
This relevance should not be measured in the areas of cooperation alone , however important they may be . 
But the significance of MGC lies beyond the signed agreements . 
The idea was born during Thai Foreign Minister Surin Pitsuwan 's visit to Delhi in July . 
Meanwhile , suspending the manufacture of ASVS at the institute is likely to affect the availability of the serum in the country . 
The production process takes up to six months from the time the venom is injected to when the serum is ready . 
It is also teeming with nostalgia . 
The portrait of nationalist leader Acharya P . 
Even for drugs , more than half the capacity lies unused . 
BCPL has escaped being a candidate for disinvestment due to its '' core industry '' status as a drug manufacturer . 
The latter is a questionable claim , for BCPL hardly has the volume to influence the prices of prescription drugs . 
Just as we will forget what the Supreme Court said about the behavior of the chief ministers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu . 
Would it not invite citizens to become a law unto themselves ? 
It may lead to anarchy . '' 
Bandits and terrorists invariably go free but ordinary Indians can find themselves in jail for no crime at all . 
His only '' offence '' was that he went to a wedding party and had a few drinks . 
When he did he was beaten up and thrown into jail for the night . 
He never got his money back and might have stayed in jail had his employer not come to his rescue . 
Such needless harassment of ordinary citizens constitutes routine police work in India . 
In villages , things are so much worse that ordinary people especially women keep as far away from the police as possible . 
Their contempt for the law comes also from their knowledge of collusion between the police and the most notorious criminals in their area . 
It has become worse over the years because many of these criminals now move easily into politics . 
Just asif you read the writing on the wallVeerappan will probably do one day . 
And though the police have spent 10 years apparently unable to find him , Tamil politicians seem to find him quite easily . 
How long will it be before he enters Parliament ? 
The tax authorities also stoutly refuted her allegations about the bribe demand and free lunch . 
Jaitly has worked assiduously to win for herself an image that derives from the likes of late Pupul Jayakar , her first mentor . 
But Jaitly has not yet achieved the unquestioned nationwide respect that both her role models commanded within the artistic community . 
But baffling questions about how and why he was released linger . 
One of the first repercussions of the film star 's release is a sense of embarrassment for Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M . 
The fact that P . 
The other curious part of the episode is the role of Dr Bhanu , a quarry owner . 
While Rajkumar initially credited her with letting Veerappan believe he was ill , he retracted his statement later . 
Intelligence sources now believe that besides the Tamil fringe groups , mafia politics too played a part . 
Dr Bhanu may have been persuaded to step in because a business partner is close to former chief minister S . 
Now under tarpaulin . 
The area was acquired by the Centre in January 1993 . 
The VHP wants some land released for initial construction . 
Given by BJP regime to VHP in 1991 on perpetual lease . 
Now with Centre . 
Some was owned by Muslims , others . 
So his farewell compliment to the former chief minister caused no more than a few chortles . 
Apparently , Bhattacharya , who was the deputy chief minister till Basu 's retirement , was in the dark about the change in rules . 
Later on , when newspersons pointed it out to him , he said , '' We have to look into it . '' 
But he wore a puzzled expression . 
There is in fact a lot for Bhattacharya and most of his ministerial colleagues to feel puzzled about over Basu 's recent antics . 
Last month , Basu arrived in Delhi a few days after Bhattacharya 's first visit to the Centre after becoming the chief minister . 
From Delhi , Bhattacharya flew to Bagdogra in north Bengal to address rallies in areas affected by terrorist attacks . 
For the first time in many years , attendance time of the staff is being recorded at Writers ' Buildings . 
I am proud of the friendship . 
I have great regard for them . 
Otherwise I love the country . 
We have friends in India . 
I and my wife had four kids on your soil . 
There is no evidence that I received the money from Bofors . 
Are they convinced that you are at fault ... 
They are doing this at the behest of the Indian Government . 
Bal Thackeray was arrested and produced in court . 
The Maharashtra Government stated that investigations were complete , the chargesheet would be filed shortly , and the accused was not required for interrogation . 
The defense prayed for bail . 
Section 468 of the CRPC specifies that no court shall take cognisance of an offence after the expiry of the period of limitation . 
In a Christmas bonanza , Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced a series of social development programs . 
The problem is the very scheme was outlined with matching fanfare on August 15 . 
It is fair to ask if any progress has been made over four months . 
This neglect of the minor detail called implementation raises doubts about the December 25 doctrine too . 
India has never lacked blueprints or , in fact , money for social welfare measures . 
The mission has always been there , the missionary zeal absent . 
Undetected by radars , they cross the coast , dropping their deadly payload . 
Scary scenario , even if it is a hypothetical one . 
The state now tops our threat perception on the west coast , says a top naval official . 
And for good reason . 
The exercise was jointly conducted by the navy , air-force air force and Coast Guard . 
Over 40 warships , including submarines , and fighter aircraft participated in the war exercises . 
Missile boats staged mock attacks on installations and marine commandos simulated saboteurs infiltrating the coast . 
Ships of the Coast Guard , tasked with damage control , rehearsed techniques to contain oil spillages . 
It would take at least a week to clear one shipwreck from the gulf , say naval officials . 
There was no question of the government according sanction for prosecution against Thackeray . 
It was waiting for the Srikrishna Commission 's report and judgement on a writ by former municipal commissioner J . 
So the case can ` t be barred by limitation . 
Last year , 23COMMA000 Indians traveled with Star Cruises . 
The first to offer cruise holidays from India , IOCL hopes to make cruising in warm weather climes popular in the winters . 
Increasingly , Indian companies are getting into the business and many of them are focusing on the beautiful coastline of India . 
Let 's call this piece musings from Goa . 
Most of them are Indian . 
Goa 's prosperity makes you think of other things . 
That historical problem could well have been over if certain Indian leaders had not chosen to deliberately meddle with democracy in Kashmir . 
Remember the dismissal of Farooq Abdullah 's legitimately elected government in 1983 ? 
'' But the remand application called for a view on the merits of the case , '' argues advocate Mahesh Jethmalani . 
'' You have to apply for condonation . '' 
The Supreme Court has also ruled that arrest is not a precondition to filing a chargesheet . 
The state government 's sanction was sought on April 24 1994 and given on July 20 2000 . 
'' It felt like any of the latest fighters that I have flown , '' he observed . 
As planned Kothiyal then headed back to Bangalore Airport to land . 
The two Mirage aircraft hovered above him like sentinels as he brought the nose in line with the runway and descended . 
When the LCA 's tyres kissed the ground , the drag parachute opened to slow the aircraft 's speed . 
As it rolled into the hangar the dignitaries broke into a wild round of clapping . 
Later a jubilant Fernandes told the team , '' There is only going forward from here . 
We should not worry about the critics . '' 
From the hundreds of products it once offered , the basket has only 17 now . 
And even these are formulations based on outsourced bulk drugs . 
Lack of working capital does not allow the company to buy the bulk drugs in required quantities . 
It is nothing but a trade operation on a small scale . 
IDPL was never profitable , but nobody cared for profits in the public sector till recently . 
But there was no response . 
The reason is obvious ; the company 's liabilities will put off any buyer . 
IDPL 's total loan obligation at the close of the last fiscal was Rs 1COMMA595 crore . 
How can we remain in business ? '' 
However , the real cause of IDPL 's sickness lies in politics . 
Salaries add to the company 's loan burden every year . 
By thinking big , the architects of the '' temples of modern India '' unwittingly provided for future golden handshakes . 
No other Asian country holds such a large range of international tournaments , only five other nations in the world offer more . 
But the contradictions begin right there . 
Out of 23 Indian men ranked on the ATP computer , only one , Leander Paes , is ranked in the top 200 . 
Among women , only Nirupama Vaidyanathan is ranked in the top 200 . 
In a sport getting younger , the average age of the Indian Davis Cup team is 25 . 
Longtime coach Akhtar Ali laughs , '' God help Indian tennis . '' 
In 2000 , out of the 14 international tournaments for men , only three Indians won singles titles . 
'' What 's happening to Indian tennis is like what happened to industry . 
In a sport that defines itself by teenager burnout , 24 or 25 is already over the hill . 
Time is precious in pro tennis . 
If you are out for three months you have lost chances . '' 
They need to be playing globally six months of the year . 
Mahesh Bhupathi dismisses criticism of poor use of resources , saying the Indian circuit has crossed the million dollar mark only this year . 
Give the system time . 
It requires a rethink of methods in both trainees and trainers . 
AITA Secretary Anil Khanna says the processes are being put in place . 
National women 's coach Nandan Bal predicts it is his wards who will make all the news in the future . 
It will bring real profit only if Indian tennis can rise beyond its current status of charming struggler and charmed spectator . 
The IAF is still keen to pick up the LCA . 
Meanwhile , employees of the ADA , the pivotal institution of the project , burst crackers at the headquarters when Harinarayana entered his office . 
He had taken over as LCA 's director way back in 1986 under troubled conditions and at the relatively young age of 44 . 
For years Harinarayana struggled to knit the country 's fractious aeronautics community and had to build facilities virtually from scratch . 
It was one of the reasons why the project took so long . 
Another reason was that the government decided that much of the technology for the LCA project should be developed in India itself . 
Barring a little '' hand holding '' by some US and European firms , the team did much of its work on its own . 
The Gas Turbine Research Establishment was entrusted with the task of designing the engine for the LCA . 
Christened Kaveri , work on it started way back in 1989 with a sanction of Rs 760 crore . 
But the laboratory has struggled to master its complex technology and now expects to have the engine operational only by next year . 
Aatre reckons the LCA would be operational by 2007 . 
'' The LCA is HAL 's future , '' he says . 
In the aftermath of Bookiegate , its image has not only been tainted but wrecked beyond repair . 
'' It was at least 40 yards away when I was 15 , '' she says . 
The unique phenomenon , which has attracted many researchers , occurs quite simply . 
When the extended branches touch the ground , they begin to take root . 
'' The stems creep for a long distance in this way , '' notes the manual . 
It is a wondrous responsibility to provide a stable and cohesive team , '' says Fotedar . 
As for the new AICC team , she is likely to take the safe route and avoid any drastic overhaul . 
But this is all in a good cause you will say . 
After all , shouldn ` t the citizens of Delhi be entitled to clean air . 
So , how can it be called disgusting ? 
For a start , because Delhi 's air is not going to become any cleaner by closing a few factories down . 
More than 60 per cent of the pollution in the city 's air is caused by vehicular traffic . 
The buses continue to vomit their pollutants into Delhi 's air and the protesting workers continue to keep their jobs . 
So , how is it that the move to close the factories down has been seemingly so successful ? 
So , ever since the business of closing down factories began much money has exchanged hands . 
You can stay open as long as you have enough money for bribes . 
Who is to blame ? 
Not the Supreme Court because it is clearly trying hard to clean up Delhi 's environment . 
Not the factory owners who built their factories in the wrong place because they had no choice . 
Not even the corrupt inspectors because corruption to them is a way of life . 
No , the blame lies entirely with the Delhi Government and with governments in general . 
Were they sleeping when these illegal factories and vast illegal industrial estates were being built ? 
Why didn ` t someone put a stop to things earlier ? 
It is a move that has gone seriously awry and with no obvious benefit to anyone except the armies of corrupt officials . 
We can not have one set of rules for ordinary Indians and another for the government . 
There are two reasons why this book is a must . 
First , it successfully exposes India 's own criminal ignorance of developments on the other side of the Durand Line . 
The point needs to be stressed unambiguously . 
The party has attained power but not on its own strength alone . 
Yet workers think power is the center around which everything revolves . 
Workers want something from the Government but the party is not in a position to give it . 
As does Osama bin Laden 's crusade against the US . 
It 's not that the US is unaware of this nexus . 
It persists in singling Afghanistan out as the baddie in the hope that Pakistan is still not beyond the pale . 
However , for India , the same compulsions don ` t hold . 
Both the ISI and the Taliban have an equal stake in the jehad against India . 
If one provides the logistical direction and the funding , the other gives permanent sanctuary and the ideological inspiration . 
Under sustained international pressure , Pakistan may agree to distance itself from jehad but it can ` t stop terror unless the Taliban agrees . 
That 's unlikely to happen because Pakistan is no longer an independent entity . 
It 's an extension of a criminal network based in Kandahar . 
He has matured as a minister and a political strategist . 
Which is why the dissidents had to think twice before taking him on frontally . 
But Fernandes can not afford to rest on his laurels . 
Given the natural wildness of his Samata colleagues , he must try and inculcate in them a sense of restraint and responsibility . 
That 's a tall order but for the sake of the larger good , he must try . 
With NGOs playing politics , development takes a back seat in Orissa 
Orissa is a state where the disaster industry not only thrives but acquires international dimensions . 
Sensing a political opportunity , other NGOs and state opposition parties have taken up cudgels against bauxite mining in the region . 
Adding to the emotive fervor is the fact that Utkal Aluminia , the promoter , is a consortium of both Indian and multinational companies . 
For the opponents of the project , the agitation is crucial . 
They hope to sufficiently vitiate the atmosphere so there is pressure on the MNCs to pull out . 
Such a strategy has worked well in the past in Orissa , a state that suffers from a lack of industrialisation . 
But there is a larger question that has to be asked . 
Must the development of poor regions be held to ransom by the activities of a motivated handful ? 
Private power producers are not allowed to sell to anybody other than state electricity boards . 
In Enron 's case , only the MSEB , its sole customer , can sell this power . 
But MSEB officials are pessimistic about the outcome . 
'' We won ` t have any buyers at Rs 4 a unit when there are cheaper power sources available . '' 
It will be distributed equally in the western grid consisting of Maharashtra , Gujarat and Goa . 
Selling Enron 's power through the PTC will bring down costs and ensure 100 per cent capacity utilisation . 
Does India really need Enron phase II ? 
With as much 80 per cent of construction of phase II complete and trial runs due this week , this question is now academic . 
Indian financial institutions have also invested heavily in the project . 
What is the way out ? 
Chief Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh has set up a committee to examine the entire project . 
Kirit Parikh of the Indira Gandhi Centre of Development Research advises the state Government to push Enron for more concessions . 
Enron obtained financial closure for phase II at a much lower interest rate as compared to phase I . 
'' Options for restructuring the DPC 's debt should be explored , '' he says . 
DPC officials are wary of touching the PPA a second time but have spoken of ways to reduce the financial burden . 
'' We 're looking at a mix of solutions , '' says McGregor . 
These could range from the sale of power to other states and blocks to Central bodies like the NTPC . 
But even if DPC went down the road giving concessions , they would be worth nothing if the MSEB is unable to pay up . 
Another solution to the power tangle would be to allow the private producers to sell directly to consumers . 
For MSEB the tonic lies in tremendous political will on the part of the state Government . 
Just recovering its dues from , say , rich sugarcane farmers will add Rs 5COMMA000 crore to the MSEB 's kitty . 
But in the power play of politics cutting subsidies is one trip no politician worth his khadi cap is willing to take . 
History textbooks paint him as one who survived against all odds because of his strength . 
They swore by India , so much so that neither of them wavered after hostilities broke out in 1962 between India and China . 
Vajpayee has compelled the leaders of these nations to think of India as a nation of the future , not of the past . 
Perhaps because nobody thought at that time that India had much to offer . 
The janata has given the mandate for certain policies . 
How can we deviate from it ? 
Where do you fit in ? 
I am a party man and will be guided by the party . 
Atalji , Advaniji and the Sangh will have a point of view . 
The General in Islamabad is not an attractive man . 
Despite this to most Indians he is the man who caused the Kargil war and who is also a dictator . 
A peace process involving Pakistan is necessary and inevitable . 
But the bureaucracy refuses to accept this . 
And since we have a political leadership that is guided totally by babus they are being led into the usual traps . 
Only when he browsed through a chess database could he console himself with the fact that she had beaten five GMs before him . 
'' No man would ever like to lose to a woman . '' 
Chess coach Raghunandan Gokhale points out that a GM title will be difficult and could take a while . 
Only seven women , all world champions , are Grandmasters . 
All India Chess Federation Secretary P . 
'' This is the only game in which you have to compete with men to be among the world 's best . 
Beating them is not impossible , '' she says . 
It is no surprise her icon is the woman called the goddess of chess , Judit Polgar of Poland . 
It happens all the time all over India . 
Why should it ? 
Which brings us to another disturbing aspect of what is happening in Kashmir . 
Why could the yatris not have been protected ? 
Most estimates say we are dealing with no more than around 3COMMA000 terrorists in Kashmir . 
What are our five lakh troops in the state doing ? 
If the army can not rid us of four small terrorist groups we should disband it and hire Israeli commandos instead . 
We should also disband our intelligence services for they are unable to provide us even the minimum intelligence on Kashmir . 
You often hear politicians whine about the lack of popular support for liberalisation . 
It will come when ordinary Indians see a visible improvement in their physical environment . 
Do policies decide the players or vice versa ? 
Every now and then a PSU props up as the frontrunner for disinvestment . 
Soon , media reports follow about who is lobbying to get the company . 
A controversy brews and the company is dropped like a hot potato . 
The root cause of the confusion is the absence of a uniform policy on disinvestments . 
The recently announced scheme for dilution of government stake in Maruti Udyog exemplifies the confusion . 
Besides being complicated the scheme begs some basic questions . 
If the purpose is to increase Suzuki 's stake , why not sell it the equity directly ? 
And if the Government wants people to hold Maruti shares , why not make a public offer ? 
Perhaps it hopes Maruti will get some money to restructure itself and hike its value . 
But that 's unlikely in a market where competition is intensifying by the day . 
None would succeed if there is no clear and transparent policy on disinvestment . 
Even 10 years is not too late to draw up such a policy . 
Red Roses & Red Alert Who 's afraid of Saint Valentine ? 
True , Valentine 's Day ... but Valentine who ? 
Unfortunately , last week , the question was asked by the wrong people , in the wrong language . 
In places like Delhi , Mumbai and Kanpur , there was a blatant display of hate and paranoia in the name of culture endangered . 
If so , the footsoldiers of Shiv Sena and Hindu Jagran Manch are not upholding the culture of India but insulting it . 
For India has already proved its national confidence by gamely withstanding every invasion , including cultural ones . 
After all , globalisation is not economic alone . 
Why not start a Kama Deva 's Day ? 
I let my bat do the talking . '' 
Sonia Gandhi , President , Congress 
'' No discrimination is being practised in the distribution of relief materials among earthquake victims . '' 
Saddled with potato stocks that nobody wanted , cold storage owners dumped the tuber on the roadsides and in open fields . 
'' I had to mortgage my five bighas of land when I failed to repay Rs 10COMMA000 to a moneylender , '' he laments . 
Gayadin , another farmer from the village , is equally despondent . '' 
While productivity has dipped , the input costs have shot up . 
'' I have not been able to add even a brick to my property since 1991 , '' he says . 
Om Prakash , who grows tomatoes on his three hectares in Jaipur district in Rajasthan , is in deeper waters . 
With his annual income down from Rs 50COMMA000 to Rs 15COMMA000 , Om Prakash is scrounging to pay the instalment on his tractor . 
Already there is much heartburn over the spate of recent postings in key positions , some long overdue . 
For a while , Jaswant Singh toyed with the idea of appointing Kanwar Sibal , India 's ambassador to France . 
He was to move to Delhi to ready himself for the post . 
Eyebrows were raised when almost as an afterthought Iyer was appointed . 
The brows stayed up when the MEA made a few other glaring rollbacks and postings . 
Former foreign secretary K . 
What has happened though is that every VIP has acquired a price on his head . 
Different countries have different approaches to hostage crises . 
There is the American approach of an inflexible '' no surrender '' . 
Yet enough is never enough ; every capitulation inspires a fresh abduction , preferably one with a political gloss . 
The authority of the state is emasculated . 
To compound the crisis , higher foodgrain prices lured farmers to shift from oilseeds to wheat and paddy , which were already in excess . 
Government controls have prevented the development of private trade in agriculture commodities . 
He doesn ` t know what to grow , and if to grow . '' 
For the crisis is almost entirely government engineered . 
The threat worked . 
The talks helped at least 12 MLAs change their minds . 
Nath recognises he can ` t force Trinamool leader Mamata Banerjee to break away from the BJP . 
'' I don ` t care about the NDA . 
I will hold formal talks with Mamata , '' he says . 
'' While we will have a pact with the Trinamool , we will put up candidates against the BJP . '' 
According to him , the limited mahajot is imperative as there is no third front space in Bengal . 
Unfortunately India is not looking to Dhindsa for speculation ; it is demanding decisions . 
Yet when it produces a completely banal and lifeless '' Vision Statement '' the minister scarcely admonishes it . 
Nor does he spell out a more rigorous alternative . 
A copy of the final report was indeed saved . 
It was in a sense , Pakistan 's truth commission . 
The report has a bearing on General Pervez Musharraf 's Pakistan because it documents how political power corrupted and weakened the army . 
It was this unwillingness of West Pakistan to play by democratic rules that created a political crisis and precipitated a civil disobedience movement . 
Neither does his allegation that the BALCO deal will hurt tribals carry conviction . 
In theory , the Congress is committed to privatisation . 
As an opposition party it is , of course , entitled to raise charges of cronyism . 
The comic villainy of an Ajit is not unknown in popular Indian tradition . 
Even so , the economy would be better served if farce did not repeat itself as tragedy . 
Since the University currently employs only 100 SCs and STs , its executive council has resolved to take corrective steps . 
Since populist measures have a domino effect , there is the fear that other colleges and universities will adopt DU 's idea . 
The teaching profession rarely attracts the best students . 
The balance between meritocracy and social obligations to the traditionally disadvantaged is a delicate one . 
A more gradual method , rather than a blanket ban on deserving aspirants who merely have a politically incorrect surname , is called for . 
After all , DU 's primary objective should be to provide education , not fill job quotas . 
'' He 's a hardcore Congressman who won ` t change his colors , '' says an optimistic colleague . 
In the present scenario , its not a credential that matters . 
By implementing , or at least trying to put in place , administrative reforms that would have made government functioning more transparent . 
There are hundreds of convoluted rules and procedures that need to be junked , hundreds of departments that need no longer exist . 
Vajpayee has so far done nothing to change things , not even in the area of judicial reform , so crucial to real change . 
The slow judicial process is the main reason why corrupt officials and politicians simply disappear instead of being publicly brought to justice . 
The fact that we are still waiting for justice in the Bofors case , nearly 15 years on , speaks for itself . 
So what happens now ? 
Well , the Congress , as the main opposition party , will try and ensure that the functioning of Parliament and Government becomes impossible . 
Maybe not , not yet . 
It 's the stench of the rotten cadavers of powerlust . 
Relax reality TV , welcome raw reality . 
Then fixers without even the fig leaves of defense . 
Is India 's most popular politician distancing himself from popular sentiment ? 
Perhaps power makes the journey from the exceptional to the banal much easier . 
Take a return trip to the Coronation Day to realise the pathology of the present . 
It was a popular repudiation of the manufactured demonology of Hindu nationalism , and it was a massive protest against the culture of Congressism . 
A moment for the unfairly caricatured nationalist to step out of wall calendar mythology , to occupy the vital center of Indian politics . 
The BJP was different , and the government led by the BJP did look different , distinctive . 
But power is an indifferent leveller . 
It makes morality a dirty deed . 
Well , moral politics can easily turn into a celebration of schmaltzy sociology . 
What is the difference ? 
And can Vajpayee still make a difference ? 
He can not say the system corrupts . 
The mandate was for correcting the system . 
Three , legal and constitutional rights of tribals are being trampled upon . 
I had asked Arun Shourie to give me 24 hours to find a new buyer but they hurried the deal . 
Workers will run BALCO if Chhattisgarh is allowed to buy it . 
There is a classy casualness about everything on him , be it the Hermes tie or the Patek Philippe watch . 
A 1964 batch IAS officer of the Bihar cadre , son of Sir T . 
And that despite his name figuring nowhere in the Tehelka tapes . 
He flitted with practised ease in the Finance Ministry under Manmohan Singh , P . 
In the process , many myths are being cleared . 
Mehtab Bagh was also rumored to be the proposed site for the Taj 's black marble twin that Shahjahan wanted as his mausoleum . 
Finally , the ASI decided to pick up the shovel in 1994 . 
He may be '' rewarded '' with a Rajya Sabha nomination . 
In more ways than one , the jury is out on George . 
I encountered the phenomenon of Bollywood when we began the tour in Mumbai . 
Each tribe member has a different way of dealing with the past and moving into the present to ready themselves for the future . 
Kumaratunga herself narrowly regained the presidency late last year after a bitter battle with UNP chief Ranil Wickremasinghe . 
With the clergy also losing confidence , Kumaratunga finds herself in a tight corner . 
Though the Lankan Army has fought back and halted the LTTE 's march towards Jaffna , the situation remains tense . 
Now the withdrawal of the bill makes her task of regaining political control an uphill one . 
On Independence day , the raj bhavan in Bangalore will hold an art exhibition . 
The '' Goddess '' has a new resting place and new companions . 
Were the nation 's highest film awards '' rigged '' ? 
Was the selection process '' questionable '' ? 
Do the winners have any reason to celebrate ? 
The drama unfolded during the jury 's final round of deliberations on March 26 in Delhi . 
The National Film Awards have never been short of controversy . 
Last year , controversy surfaced again over the decision to give the best actress award to Kiron Kher for the film Bariwali . 
It was later alleged that her dialogues in Bengali were dubbed by TV actress Reeta Kayral and had not even been acknowledged . 
'' Why was there no protest then ? '' 
Many in the industry feel the uproar was long overdue . 
But the debate is certain to continue till the time President K . 
That Ghose was jury chairman last year when Kher was given the best actress award is , of course , best forgotten . 
In the past few years investments in mutual funds have soared . 
But the scam will most definitely affect that tide . 
More than the analysts or the media or even the brokers , it is the regulator that investors are most disappointed with . 
The share price of Cyberspace flared up to Rs 1COMMA900 , before plummeting to Rs 18.45 in March . 
Beyond the angers and frustration , the crash has also made small investors see some sense . 
Nobody now believes that stock price don ` t matter when you are buying shares in a technology company . 
Not to mention how dangerous it can be to pay a high price for shares of companies with big claims and but little else . 
That such devastation happened in the markets despite several measures to improve efficiency and transparency is ominous . 
In the past when shares used to be delivered physically , there were problems of forged certificates . 
The teacher bought a bagful of primers for his '' student '' from the recently concluded Bengali Book Fair in the capital . 
Besides , groupism has always been there in the Congress . 
Sharma had chosen it because the crescent park was bigger than the one in front of her house , a few blocks away . 
Sharma politely acknowledged the warning , but noticing that the park was crowded with children , continued her walk . 
When I realised it was a monkey I screamed and tried to pull it away . 
But it would not budge . 
Only when I dug my nails into its head did it finally leave my baby . '' 
Not before the damage was done . 
The enraged primate then turned on the maid , bit her hand and attacked the gardener before it ran out of sight . 
The violent monkey , on the other hand , could be out on the prowl looking for another victim . 
This is not a stray incident . 
In Noida , a little further away , monkeys are now attacking humans in predatory packs . 
'' The problem is the Government doesn ` t want to do anything . 
It is waiting for NGOs to solve the problem , '' says Menon . 
And time is running out for the capital 's distressed populace . 
Opinion , however , remains divided . 
There were strategic concerns . 
You ask those who did that . 
In your second term , you wanted to earn wealth . 
Facing corruption charges back home , Wahid 's fate as president currently hangs in the balance . 
He was personally invited to India by Prime Minister A . 
It is doubtful if Vajpayee can return Wahid 's hospitality as his official guest . 
Last week , it was the ITC Digital Film Festival that she was invited to inaugurate . 
She waxed eloquent on the merits of digital movies . 
But it was soon evident that Sushma doesn ` t appreciate all that she preaches . 
Political cyberwars have finally arrived . 
Not any longer . 
The son of a schoolteacher , Mahanta has transformed himself from a successful student leader to a politician with tremendous staying power . 
Then the AGP lost the 1991 polls . 
He also sent his highly ambitious wife , Jayashree Goswami Mahanta , a zoology teacher , to the Rajya Sabha . 
Now , by tying up with the BJP , he could have ensured her a Central ministerial berth . 
Nugas is owned by businessman Ramesh Handa , who makes no secret of his friendship with the Gandhi family . 
Suspicions of a deal between the Delhi government and Nugas have been floating around for a while . 
The company has subsequently moved the Supreme Court . 
Handa is charged with using his connections in the Congress to influence the Delhi government . 
Cultural Department officials say the task at hand is gigantic . 
A sentiment not always echoed by the city 's menfolk . 
Locals who organise the festival through public contribution pamper the women with treats of lemon drinks , fruits and ice cream . 
Perhaps because tradition has it that a bachelor hit during the evening is ensured matrimony with the woman of his dreams . 
Sometimes though , it 's not just about playing tough , it 's also about getting even . 
Along with the fun , it is also a time for prayers . 
After 10 p m , women offer prayers to Goddess Ganwar . 
Was probably killed a day after capture . 
Vertical knife cut mark on forehead . 
India and Bangladesh share 4COMMA096 km of border based on a dividing line drawn by Sir Cyril Radcliffe during Partition . 
Only 6.5 km are yet to be demarcated . 
The crux of the problem , however , are 161 enclaves in each other 's territory that continue to be disputed . 
India claims 111 enclaves spread over 17COMMA000 acres that fall in Bangladesh territory . 
Bangladesh 's 50 such enclaves are spread over 10COMMA000 acres in Indian territory . 
'' We can ` t do magic . 
Millions of people in the border areas need to feel safe again . 
It will take time , '' he said . 
Nor has the argument that slogans supporting Opposition leader Khaleda Zia were found conveniently placed alongside the dead Indians in Boraibari . 
'' If that indeed were the case , then the Indians themselves planted it , '' says a garment factory owner in Dhaka . 
'' Why would Zia 's followers or the ISI leave a calling card ? '' 
Fortunately for Hasina , despite the internal strife , economic growth has not flagged . 
Hasina 's tactic has been to bait Zia on the subject of elections , but to remain unfazed by the strikes and shutdowns . 
Rs 35COMMA000 for overstaying in his official residence . 
In fairness to A . 
Then it was Vajpayee 's turn to take things personally . 
Businessmen representing textile and sugar mills were also present and Vajpayee and Sonia could have learned how to have a dialogue without fighting . 
It is they who suffer most due to unthinking , insensitive laws and policies . 
It is the plight of these people that our two most important leaders should be worrying about , not their own pathetic ego problems . 
The report has suggested that artillery should be included in the general cadre on an experimental basis till 2005 . 
Currently , an artillery officer has to opt for the general cadre to command brigades , divisions , corps and the army . 
The rules are such that he can ` t go back to artillery branch . 
The appointment for commanding a formation , according to the report , will be made by a board and not the military secretariat branch . 
The secretariat will only lay down the qualitative requirements . 
The best man for the job appears to be the yardstick . 
There are major changes in the dress code too . 
The Joshi Committee has recommended that there should be one uniform for brigadiers and above . 
Currently , the colors of the lanyard , cap and belt of any officer show regimental affiliations . 
General Joshi 's study has also advocated restructuring of the Intelligence Corps . 
According to the report , there should be an intelligence battalion at the corps level and another at the command level . 
This last may be the least contentious issue . 
For the rest , the recommendations will have to battle entrenched opinion before they can become rules . 
The nun promptly returns the greeting but is surprised to see the crowd of unusual visitors accompanying the vicar . 
They are all carrying huge red flags with the hammer and sickle emblazoned on them . 
The father smilingly requests the nun to call the other inmates . 
Though he has steered clear of overt politics , Nooranal is no novice to public life . 
Founder of many educational institutions in tribal Bathery , he has been the president of the local cooperative bank for 40 years . 
But today they have changed and are on church and temple committees , '' says Nooranal . 
The resultant furore led to several church groups openly dissociating themselves from the statement . 
It 's May Day . 
A blue Tata Sumo drives to the BJP 's campaign headquarters in Dibrugarh town shortly after 8 . 
Suddenly , all hell breaks loose . 
The trio are rushed to the Assam Medical College & Hospital nearby , but are declared '' brought dead '' . 
Ouch , that must have hurt more . 
That 's one way of getting noticed . 
Looks like she 's got this too . 
The film will be released in 2001 ... and Abraham is pretty sure he 'll survive as a model till then . 
An interesting set of statistics has emerged from the opinion poll on the assembly elections published in this magazine last week . 
In supposedly modern Kerala , 53 per cent said it had remained unchanged and 23 per cent said it had worsened . 
Yet , if you were voting in Tamil Nadu would you really choose someone who proudly goes by the name of Stalin ? 
Not a day goes by without their leaders lecturing the world on '' the poor '' . 
Is that not strange ? 
Surely , a political party so totally dedicated to the poor should have succeeded in eliminating poverty by now ? 
How do you manage to do it day after day ? '' 
Who cares , frankly , and who cares who wins in the desert that our political landscape has become . 
The second college to be set up by the British in India , Presidency College , Chennai , looks every inch a heritage institution . 
The '' Mother of Madras University '' is No . 
The science departments were a hub of quality research during the time C . 
Not surprising when 200 out of 250 faculty members are PhD holders . 
There is a sense of history about Presidency . 
Heading the list is Pranab Mukherjee who is said to have found inspiration after two meetings with former prime-minister prime minister P . 
If it 's not him , it could be Prasada . 
'' I 'm a born fighter , '' she says , unfazed by what she sees is a momentary setback . 
The ASI cried foul , arguing that the plan would result in a chaotic jungle replacing the thoughtfully planned Bagh . 
The garden should only have plants that the Mughals used in their gardens , it pleaded . 
The Supreme Court agreed , but directed the NEERI and the ASI to agree on a common list of plants . 
Naidu though , belongs to a new breed of Indian politician . 
He may not be an economist but he is street smart enough to pay attention to changes taking place in the world . 
He realised that he needed professional help to articulate a new idea for Andhra . 
He turned to consultancy firm McKinsey . 
Not only did Naidu do this but once he had their report in his hands he set about ruthlessly changing the agenda for Andhra . 
The fact that he won the last election means that ordinary people are getting the message . 
The investors deposited their earnings , but these were reportedly siphoned off . 
When they demanded their share or approached the police , many of them were threatened with dire consequences . 
In Mumbai , over 150 students have lodged complaints with the Economic Offences Wing of the local police against Wintech . 
As in Delhi , charges of criminal breach of trust , cheating and criminal conspiracy have been slapped against the administrators . 
To bring some justice to hapless victims like Manisha the investigation needs to be meticulous . 
The key lies in the questioning of the Mithani brothers and other senior executives . 
But most Indians only realise they may have heart problems when the disease has developed to full blown clogged arteries . 
At that stage one in every five patients dies , no matter how good the treatment . 
The biochemical tests warn of risks . 
For early detection of the actual disease , angiography is considered the '' golden standard . '' 
With this technique heart problems can be detected at a very early stage . 
Due to its magnetic properties , MRI can ` t be used in patients with metallic implants . 
Besides , on a third of patients the procedure doesn ` t show the whole length of arteries . 
Calcium gets deposited where plaques form in the coronary arteries . 
The hookah smokers will have a lot to talk about . 
The youngest has not yet attained puberty and will be joining her husband as soon as she does . 
While Jammu admits having taken Rs 50COMMA000 for each of them , villagers say he is actually richer by Rs 5 lakh . 
'' How else will we make money ? '' 
A wailing Reshma shakes her head from side to side but knows she has little say in the matter . 
According to law , a man who is above 18 and marries a minor girl can be prosecuted . 
However , not one girl has come forward to complain . 
The Government , clearly , is nonplussed about initiating changes , but leaving the girls to their plight is no answer . 
But it will not be an easy task given the warped mindset of the people . 
The hopelessness of the situation reminds one of the graffiti on the rear of a bus on a desert track . 
Gadkari is now planning an expansion , Tehelka style . 
And it appears that in everything he wants to do , he has to contend with V . 
Unfortunately Shukla , life president of the IOA , punctured his plans on a very simple premise . 
Nobody told him that cricket was not an Olympic sport . 
Seems someone told him that in the past many speakers were beheaded . 
But his fears were allayed by Chief Minister J . 
Enough to make Kalimuthu beam . 
We were not consulted before portfolios were decided . 
This is some subcontinental brotherhood . 
Come to the subtext and read the motives . 
And the General has not yet passed the trust test , despite the belated brave words against the jehadis . 
He is , after all , the same man who responded to Vajpayee 's Lahore journey by initiating Kargil . 
So , engagement is fine but the outbreak of peace is fantasy . 
Yet to actively encourage small families to the point of virtually outlawing the alternative is an alarming action . 
There is the liberal argument that regulating the personal lives of citizens does not quite fit the government 's job description . 
Enforcing the sort of law Gujarat has proposed is also going to be a nightmare . 
Will it , for instance , cover a Bengali temporarily residing in Gujarat ? 
Can a permanent resident of , say , Surat who works in Bangalore have two children or three ? 
A special cell has been created to oversee this work , to be completed within the next two years . 
There are also plans to restore the heritage buildings in the vicinity . 
As part of the effort , the Charminar Heritage Walks were flagged off in September 2000 . 
Vajpayee too will not like to be seen presiding over a second failure . 
On the Kashmir issue , however , Musharraf could encounter a roadblock . 
Pakistan , it seems , has finally found a leader who cares . 
He even reprimanded his pr people for trying to retract the statement on his behalf . 
'' I learned to absorb and keep quiet . 
I had to take decisions , an extremely heavy burden I couldn ` t share with anyone . 
But I do believe that sometimes it 's good to share because otherwise you feel so alone . 
Although I always make up my mind , I like to pick the minds of people . '' 
Playing a game of tennis with his ADCs . 
Gently instructing his cook to go easy on the oil while deepfrying fish . 
We should judge Musharraf by what he does , not what he says . 
'' We barked , '' says Union Law Minister Arun Jaitley , '' and it worked . '' 
But her vengeful strike has exposed some gaping holes in the constitutional separation of powers between the Union and the states . 
In managing the present crisis , the Centre swore by the 1988 report of the Sarkaria Commission . 
Before Karunanidhi , no serving or former chief minister had been put behind bars without judicial sanction . 
Jayalalitha herself was arrested after the special court had declined her bail , as was Laloo Prasad Yadav . 
The arrests showed that politicians enjoyed little immunity from harassment by the police of a hostile state government . 
How fair ! 
The medium is J . 
Truth shall prevail , as long as Jayalalitha alone is its arbiter . 
For Jayalalitha , the masses are there . 
Today , Jayalalitha has taken the idea of the supreme leader to the summit of paranoia . 
The origin of the giddha can be traced to a form of entertainment during weddings centuries earlier . 
Chathe Sekhwan , however , never gave up the mardan da giddha and it was performed during village fairs . 
For the farmers who toiled all day , it was a great way to unwind . 
It also brought in some additional income . 
In a way , the British too helped revive the dance . 
Once on the road they had to do something to keep themselves occupied . 
The mardan da giddha was a popular option . 
Official apathy emboldened the thieves to strike again . 
The gang came in a tractor , tied up the two watchmen and decamped with the booty . 
Clearly , this is a worrisome loss that is underplayed because of the site 's remote location . 
Here the stupa is built on elevated terraces like the strikingly beautiful one at Sanchi in Madhya Pradesh . 
The stupa 's value was obviously lost on the authorities . 
Want to know the latest recruit in Bollywood 's Maa brigade ? 
Ali , who thought Sivan was pulling a fast one , passed up the offer when it was first made . 
Most of these have bright colored flowers that would shine in the moonlight . 
The herbage is also being arranged in order of its height . 
Also , the gardeners assisting Singh in nursing the young garden are constantly weeding out the weaker species . 
'' Plants not suited to the sandy soil are being constantly replaced , '' says gardener Rishi Prakash . 
'' The garden is a mixture of what looks nice and what sustains . '' 
The origins of the Mehtab Bagh are a matter of much speculation . 
It probably existed even before the Taj was built and was later refashioned to suit the mausoleum 's symmetry . 
The concept of a riverside garden was essentially a Mughal idea , probably brought to India from central Asia . 
The bulk of these have come from US think tanks or from Pakistan . 
The School of International Studies , a premier institute in Delhi , is still awaiting an Iran expert . 
It 's not that our collective awareness of the region was always so feeble . 
What is referred to as the Great Game wasn ` t played from Whitehall , as is often believed . 
It was planned and executed by the Foreign Department of the Government of India in Calcutta and Delhi . 
By proceeding on the assumption that Indian foreign policy began in 1947 , India turned its back on an institutionalised awareness of the region . 
Yet , so short is public memory that we have forgotten what India was like before the reform process began . 
This makes the government so nervous of change that much of the economy continues to remain unreformed . 
The power sector , for instance , remains much as it has always been . 
So electricity theft costs taxpayers Rs 20COMMA000 crore a year . 
The problem , though , is bigger still . 
Although envisaged as a maritime surveillance command , its significance lies in its location . 
Most of the ships approach the straits through the 10 Degree Channel , which bisects the Andaman Islands and the Great Nicobar Islands . 
'' It is a facility to extend India 's reconnaissance and surveillance reach , '' he says . 
The length of the runways at the Port Blair and the Car Nicobar airports have been increased to allow fighter operations . 
It is learned that fighter practice '' runs '' will take place as soon as the ANC commander is appointed by the Government . 
The ANC command will also have additional land forces . 
Well , the tectonic shift in Indian politics was an expression of popular will and desire . 
As a responsible , nationally conscious party on the right , the elected had the mandate to herald the new . 
It is losing on ideology as well as ideas . 
From Tehelka to Agra to UTI , it has been a case of diminishing leadership , of mandate betrayed . 
It should not have happened so soon . 
It 's a Rs 1COMMA50COMMA000 crore fear . 
And within the BJP , there is no doubt about the heir apparent . 
Since then , however , he has sought to reinvent himself in a more acceptable garb . 
As the foremost pointman of the Vajpayee Government , he enjoys a personal rapport with the leaders of coalition partners . 
Consequently , his elevation to the top job may be less complicated than his reputation suggests . 
They will guarantee a troubled succession . 
It 's an art in itself , teaching these animals their chores . 
And the trainers are very patient . 
The calves can start learning when they are around three . 
The class is slightly distracted by visitors . 
When little Chandni accidentally breaks rank , a minder runs up to her and shouts , '' Shamadehi . '' 
She quickly grabs the tail of the elephant in front and falls back into line . 
With time , the elephants will even allow their trainers to ride them . 
While riding an elephant , mahouts maneuver by pressing their toes into the animal , especially to indicate direction . 
Digging left toes into the animal 's neck means a left turn . 
To give the orphans some semblance of a family , the captive elephants are kept close to each other . 
All this takes money but Sinha and the others are not complaining . 
In fact , the upkeep of each elephant comes to around Rs 1 lakh every year . 
The elephants polish off about 300 kg of green fodder , and sometimes tender banana shoots as a rare treat . 
As Sinha points out , it 's a solid investment for the future . 
But it is easier said than done . 
Much to its surprise , Jayalalitha not only brushed the request aside but turned it into a subject for a political propaganda blitzkrieg . 
The Naga insurgency problem lay not in Nagaland but in the hill districts of Manipur . 
Kaushal is no ordinary member of Parliament . 
The former Mizoram governor went on to share a secret with the members . 
He debunked the popular misgivings about the concept of Nagalim . 
'' Greater Nagaland is not an antinational demand . 
It may be wrong but it is certainly not antinational . 
And this spell might last for decades . 
The requisition issue is knottier than what the Central leadership thinks . 
The subtext of the rule says that '' concurrence '' with the state governments is necessary . 
Concurrence , in the context of constitutional provisions , must be preceded by consultation . 
In this case , there is no evidence of a prior consultation with the state Government . 
Former DGP V . 
A nod from the state government is still necessary . 
Thus there was no '' disagreement '' as mentioned in the proviso to the rule . 
The involvement of the IPS troika in question with the Jayalalitha administration is , of course , beyond doubt . 
However , the Centre 's power to override the states ' opposition to recalling officers still remains a gray area in the law . 
Nor are the state governments likely to accept a transgression of their rights without resistance . 
The Intelligence Bureau , for example , reported as many as 65 such vacancies last year . 
The Tamil Nadu case obviously sets a precedent that states may not welcome . 
She took her revenge by pulling down the NDA Government . 
He now calls her '' respected lady '' . 
As the cortege made its sad way from Varanasi to Mirzapur , the twelve had their pockets picked . 
Perhaps the thieves were followers of a Samajwadi Party leader who figures in police records as a pickpocket . 
After the elections Mamata Banerjee declared that she 'd like to go it alone . 
If the majority partner says it would go it alone the alliance naturally can not exist . 
The alliance was possible only after Mamata quit the NDA . 
I don ` t know what it means . 
This year , the alliance got 96 , including Trinamool 's 60 and our 26 . 
So both parties have gained . 
If she distances herself from the BJP we 'd like to go with her , even as a minor partner . 
I met such a businessman recently and this is the tale of graft and bribery he had to tell . 
He prefaced his story by saying , '' You do know that it 's worse than ever , don ` t you ? 
He was ready to negotiate the amount of municipal taxes the hotelier was obliged to pay but for a price . 
The share warrants issued to the Ambanis in December 1992 were actually allotted to them in 1994 . 
Reliance dubs this argument as misconceived . 
The October 1994 investment of UTI in RIL shares totalled Rs 773 crore . 
Because open market purchase would have made the acquisition costlier . 
Obviously , these funds had to be invested . 
Apart from RIL , UTI bought shares of eight other companies through private placements in 1994 . 
Returns on most of these investments , other than in HDFC , have been negative . 
Trap shooter Anwar Sultan 's family complains that he has grown silent and introspective . 
Ask them what they get out of being athletes in a country besotted by cricket , to now suddenly carry one billion hopes . 
And the volume is growing . 
Has India become rather stoic ? 
Or is the blood in jammu too familiar a national fact to warrant drastic reaction ? 
Part of the problem is India 's national character . 
Security is more of a concept here , preserved mostly in committees and documents . 
A nation on permanent vigil is certainly not an Indian trait . 
The danger is clear and present and it is testing the national will , but the Indian resistance is passive . 
India has weapons but no vision . 
The point has registered well with officials . 
Perhaps this is the reason he has adopted the new style of communicating with the police and public . '' 
It worked . 
'' If a police officer will not use brave words , who will ? '' 
He is also the man who exhorts his officials to change the force 's image . 
'' That 's the only way to undo the damage done by the Sun TV-footage TV footage , '' says an AIADMK leader . 
But the Censor Board has had the last word . 
This has not happened even in Bihar , '' he told journalists . 
When he ordered a vigilance probe into the leak , bete noire K . 
It is a power struggle in which every method is acceptable , including midnight knocks and roadside rage . 
And both parties want to stand on the moral highground , preferably with some partisan support from Delhi . 
To get that support , the underdog may have to take off his shirt in the House of People . 
He has lost the election miserably and now the winner wants to ensure that he loses his dignity as well . 
And when the bleeding underdogs take their trauma to the street , the raging empress of Poes Garden ensures they bleed more . 
The future of IA 's subsidiary , Alliance Air , also hangs in balance . 
Doctors advise that if a dog bite has caused a flesh wound administering a rabies vaccine is mandatory . 
So next time you bend down to pat an unknown dog , be very careful . 
By M . 
You now have a responsibility , both to your countrymen and to hockey . 
Till today , no country has been able to match our record of eight Olympic golds . 
You must believe that you are going to Sydney to create history by winning the ninth gold medal . 
This time in Sydney , gift him with gold because he has shown such faith in all of you . 
The project is daunting but it does not help for the minister to pretend that change is unnecessary . 
The Disinvestment Ministry is a failure , but its minister is not . 
He is trying every way to create political support for privatisation . 
But Jatiya is doing nothing . 
Nor has he done anything to remove the perception . 
Attempts over three weeks to reach the minister drew a blank . 
Both are being attempted . 
He chose rural development over other ministries that were offered . 
Such largesse comes with little accountability because it is states that spend the money . 
Allocated funds are not always utilised . 
In many schemes , expenditure is less than 30 per cent of the allocation . 
The quality of spending is even more dubious . 
If every company takes up development projects , we can change the face of rural India . '' 
Naidu 's radical proposal is to divest the government 's stakes in PSUs and invest the proceeds in rural development . 
'' That will not only subdue opposition to disinvestment , it will also generate funds for rural development outside the budget . '' 
A good idea , regardless of whether it is dubbed the excitement of an innocent or the lofty promise of a seasoned politician . 
The chargesheet of inefficiency against this ministry runs into reams . 
Yet Arun Jaitley is one person who even the most despondent expects a lot from . 
But Jaitley 's track record justifies such hopes . 
Recently , Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha found himself invited to a function to honor Reliance Industries chief Dhirubhai Ambani in Mumbai . 
The PMO canceled the CCEA meeting . 
But what has really got Muivah 's goat is that the passport is valid only for one year . 
The umpires will want to get into the td 's good books , so imagine you are playing 13 men not 11 . 
I look at your schedule and while every match will be tough , it can be done . 
Our best chance to score is either through indirect penalty corners or by using the scoop which works well against Argentina . 
We can win this match by two goals but we must follow an attack until we finish it . 
Anaida had approached the producers with a proposal to sing in the film , but got snapped up as an actor instead . 
'' I 've had an overdose of glamour . 
I want to do something serious now . '' 
Indian cinema and pop can wait . 
His last song Lift Karade made him soar the charts . 
The Indore police have charged Sami with duping the organisers of a garment fair held in April . 
The jury is out on this one . 
We are watching . 
We will not allow the Government to get away with any sleight of hand . '' 
Murli Manohar Joshi is a lousy education minister . 
That is our real problem . 
So the changes he has sought to bring are superficial and silly . 
But then he is not really the education minister since this most vital of ministries does not exist in the Vajpayee Cabinet . 
We have totally unnecessary ministries for it , industry , food processing and God knows what else but no ministry of education . 
The result is a system of education in desperate need of change . 
The result also is that it is easier for Indians to study India 's culture and civilisation in some American university than in India . 
Other countries teach Shakespeare in their own languages , we teach in bad English . 
Their goalkeeper is good at blocking the scoop so take direct shots at goal , and Tirkey , use this one to fire away . 
Play an offensive and daring game , understand that togetherness is everything in a team . 
Play together , stay together , relax together . 
Think about your mission at all times and never forget that an individual never wins a hockey gold medal , the team does . 
This was followed by the Taliban ordering all Hindus to carry identity cards . 
Now Christians are their latest victims . 
When we get the evidence , they will be arrested . '' 
WFP promptly told the Taliban to stop its '' baseless allegations '' . 
Wali said the evidence that Shelter Now staff was proselytising was '' as clear as the sun '' . 
That is why they have been arrested , '' he said . 
Soldiers found copies of the Bible in Farsi and Pashto , CDs and cassettes and a timetable for Christian teaching , he said . 
The Indian medical system also provides a patient the freedom to consult specialists without references . 
Nandita Desai from New York who underwent treatment at the Malpani Infertility Clinic explains , '' Doctors here are more accessible . 
For fertility treatment in the US , I would have had to wait for several months before I got to see a specialist . '' 
Desai planned her visit so that she could meet her relatives , enjoy a much deserved holiday and get treated . 
For these patients , the Internet is a goldmine of information . 
'' Patients ask us very specific questions and weigh the pros and cons before they take any treatment . 
'' You can not afford to fall sick . 
However , there has been no discernible change in the fortunes of the tribals . 
If anything , the number of families below the poverty line has gone up from 15COMMA000 when the project started to 24COMMA000 now . 
Till the plan becomes a reality , very few will know of a general who so loved his wives that he murdered them . 
Chhattisgarh wants Amarkantak . 
As the two state tussle over Amarkantak , an unlikely outcome could be the complicating of the Narmada dam muddle . 
Amarkantak is the source of the Narmada and the Sone . 
Both the rivers trickle out as springs from the rocky Vindhyas . 
When Madhya Pradesh was bifurcated , nobody thought of adding Amarkantak to Chhattisgarh . 
Also at stake , besides the Narmada , are the priceless coal and bauxite deposits . 
South Eastern Coalfields Limited has its best mines in Chhattisgarh in the belt stretching from Shahdol to Chirmiri . 
The bauxite deposits in the Vindhya ranges are only partly exploited . 
Smelters in BALCO , Korba , are expected to get most of their future supplies from the Surguja and Shahdol regions in Chhattisgarh . 
Obviously , neither state wants to let go of such huge mineral and forest resources . 
Amarkantak is a small center with a population of 3COMMA000 people . 
Its economy is dependent on Chhattisgarh whose borders are less than 7 km away by road . 
Pendra , the nearest railway station , is less than 40 km away . 
This may begin to ruin the fragile economy of the place . 
The condition of roads in Chhattisgarh is slightly better , so is the power infrastructure . 
Naturally many corporates want to get into them . 
But my job is to ensure level playing fields for every player irrespective of the name tag they carry . 
The prime-minister prime minister was always in favor of merging telecom with information technology . 
He used this opportunity to carry out his objective . 
Instead of taking information technology away from me , he assigned telecom to me as well . 
Or , like that Islamic cab driver in Salman Rushdie 's Fury , cursing the blasphemer in the marketplace , '' Hey ! 
American man ! 
You are a godless homosexual rapist of your grandmother 's pet goat . '' 
It could not have been Pyongyang . 
It doesn ` t have a center , it doesn ` t have a helmsman . 
In Basu 's case , his tongue has an immediate reason to slip so savagely . 
Mauled by Mamata Banerjee , reported by George Fernandes , he seems to have lost his linguistic equilibrium . 
Of that thing about '' the image of the country '' , Comrade , there 's an immense sense of irony . 
Of their national importance , it is the story of the shrinking soviets , thanks to Mamata and Marxists in the countryside . 
The reaction came . 
Note , for instance , the patently absurd arguments being constructed to limit India 's cooperation with the US in the war against terrorism . 
This argument is devoid of any merit . 
It was a policy designed in the Cold War years to help India avoid being trapped in the rivalry between the two blocs . 
Consider this . 
More Indians have died in acts of terrorism than in all the wars fought with Pakistan and China . 
It should not cause complacence . '' 
Contrarians are also arguing that while India is offering the US a virtual carte blanche , Washington 's response has been more muted . 
Admittedly , America could have reacted to India 's offer of cooperation with greater dispatch , but partnerships are not built on phone calls . 
A convergence of strategic interests gets nations together , not tactical maneuvers intended to serve a specific purpose . 
At 83 kg , Vajpayee is overweight . 
Osteoarthritis has no cure . 
Treatment is limited to relieving the pain . 
The cartilage is removed and replaced with an artificial knee . 
Called a prosthesis , it is made of metal and plastic . 
Two metal pieces are fitted into the thigh and shin bones , with a plastic plate acting as a bearing between them . 
The prosthesis either fits into the bone or is '' cemented '' by a substance called polymethymethyacrylate . 
After the surgery , rigorous physiotherapy prevents stiffness in the knee joint . 
Recovery takes between four and six weeks . 
A urine sample showed infection , which again could spell fever . 
There his condition deteriorated and nine days after he was admitted , he died at the ICU while on a respirator . 
'' I am shocked that they actually missed it , '' says a senior doctor at AIIMS . 
If only it could remain like that forever . 
They are both lawyers from Karnataka , besides being experienced MPs . 
AML can , in fact , move fast from first presentation to serious illness . 
The WBC count generally rises dramatically when there is an infection or proliferation of cancer cells in the blood . 
He was specifically asked to follow up but he didn ` t even when the feverish bouts returned and he lost weight and appetite . 
Kumaramangalam also seemed to first believe he had malaria since he had just returned from a trip to the Andamans . 
News of the real summit in Washington was buried in an inside page amid more stories about Bill Gates . 
If media hysteria was not embarrassing enough we had our chief ministers queuing up before Gates with begging bowls in their hands . 
Environmental issues affect us all as does the fight against poverty , disease , terrorism , drugs . 
And inanities like our '' success '' in escaping the economic crisis that convulsed east Asia two years ago . 
Where is the question of computers without electricity ? 
The story is not much different when it comes to roads . 
How else to explain why not a single kilometre of a single new highway has even begun to be built ? 
He is not the only wrong man in the wrong job . 
So why criticise the prime-minister prime minister 's speechwriters when they are only reflecting accurately the malaise that afflicts his Government ? 
It can now rightfully be said that India counts for far more in the world today than it did two years ago . 
More important , this newly acquired relevance has successfully combined national security , economics and the clout of the Indian diaspora . 
Under Vajpayee , India has junked much of its archaic Nehruvian baggage and pursued an alternative course diligently and with some finesse . 
Consequently , foreign direct investment and institutional investment were made attractive and the country rushed through its WTO obligations even before schedule . 
Within party circles , his aides claim that 20 of the 44 MLAs in the state are behind him . 
It didn ` t ruffle Ananth Kumar 's feathers in the least . 
Two , his role as the de facto BJP chief in Karnataka is no secret . 
Successive state chiefs from B . 
One of the DC secretaries said on condition of anonymity , '' We are about to formalise election committees at the booth level . '' 
There are over 35COMMA000 polling booths spread across the state 's 294 assembly constituencies . 
There is a new twist in the strategy though . 
Ghosh was present with Basu in most of the chief minister 's recent public meetings . 
There are random checks of vehicles , but usually of those belonging to House staff and not of visitors . 
She knows it is no big deal . 
They were rewarded for choosing Van Goghs and discouraged from choosing Chagalls . 
After nine weeks , the birds could distinguish previously unseen works by the two painters . 
The pigeons performed almost as well as a group of humans on a similar course . 
It 's the festive season and that means buying sprees . 
Especially at '' zero interest '' . 
Eighty per cent of the deaths caused by rabies worldwide occur here . 
After inoculation , dogs ' blood is seldom tested to check whether they have developed sufficient antibodies . 
In the short term , preventive vaccination for humans assumes importance . 
But critics have begun targeting Krishna . 
He must express regret for being there . '' 
And now Chimmanakatti has wrought marital disharmony . 
Misery rarely comes alone . 
Verma and Malhotra boycotted a rally convened by Khurana on December 9 . 
He is still an MP though . 
He knows what not to give up . 
The mike and lights were so restricting that acting was limited to hamming the lines with the body in stony immobility . 
He was the precursor of the industry 's '' star '' phenomenon . 
Kismet ran in a Kolkata theater for three years ; in Mumbai a theater was named after it . 
Three decades later , when Shakti was made , Sippy gave Ashok Kumar only a cameo role . 
Yet His name led the star billings , followed by those of Dilip Kumar and Amitabh Bachchan . 
These pigs carry selected genetic traits of jellyfish . 
Scientists at Harvard Medical School have found that sperm starved of calcium are too weak to break into an egg . 
So a drug that temporarily blocks calcium , and functions locally , may be the key to cheap , effective contraception . 
This is an attempt to come to terms with the fact that many do not always do . 
Their skills will be measured up soon , not against their peers but against Anand , against precedent , against history . 
Indian sport has enjoyed a reasonably good year , but for the athlete '' reasonable '' should be a profanity . 
It carries with it the seductive appeal of contentment , which is the enemy of all sporting pursuit . 
Film director John Huston was once asked why Fat City , his acclaimed 1972 movie about a struggling boxer , had flopped . 
Bhattal hopes to escape loss of votes by calling the case '' political vendetta '' by the Badal Government . 
Not surprisingly most of those smiling at her discomfiture are party rival Captain Amrinder Singh 's supporters . 
He has begun carrying a lemon as a talisman to ward off evil , for better health and for success in the New Year . 
His effort to woo Dame Luck is aimed at the Hyderabad mayoral election in January and dissidence in the TDP . 
And among other things , weddings mean buying gold . 
India says it has been fighting terrorism for 20 years , why don ` t they take an alleged terrorist to trial ever ? 
Give me the name of one alleged criminal who you have tried . ' '' 
When murderers and rapists can remain '' under trial '' for 20 years , why should it be different for terrorists ? 
Yet , you almost never hear our political leaders tell us how and when they plan to improve the justice system . 
Why is it so hard for our political leaders to admit that the fault lies as much within our borders as without ? 
If you haven ` t heard of Debabrata Biswas , you haven ` t missed much . 
He wants an apology from Prime Minister A . 
Vajpayee had visited the temple recently and made some carefully vague remarks on the ashes , supposedly Netaji 's , kept there . 
The Forward Bloc , the party Bose founded , refuses to believe he died in an air crash in 1945 . 
The Netaji industry holds he was imprisoned by Stalin . 
Biswas is upset Vajpayee has lent legitimacy to Renkoji especially when the '' matter was sub judice '' . 
The commission , on its part , has visited locations ranging from London to Faizabad in search of clues . 
However , the danger of an Al Qaida offensive in India still looms . 
'' Both are fired by the same ideology and operate on the same circuit . '' 
So India is now focusing on the potential targets and plans . 
It seeks Rs 48 lakh for the families of the arrested leaders and Rs 25 lakh as legal aid for fighting their court cases . 
The letter contained nothing more insidious than talcum powder . 
Chandigarh Mayor Harjinder Kaur received a packet of a powdery substance with the message , '' You are going to die . 
In Hyderabad , high court judge Motilal Naik complained to city Police Commissioner P . 
Chennai resident Nagaraj Prasad was also frightened when he found some powder on a magazine . 
Investigations revealed chalk powder , used to prevent the pages of the magazine from sticking together . 
That includes the letter to the home minister . 
But as each of these stories progressed , the stereotype returned . 
Someone who is only superficially modern . 
Only , these days she comes on TV glittering with diamante . 
Her other film , Hysterical Blindness , starring Uma Thurman , will run on the HBO channel . 
In a similar way , South Asian actors seem to be all over the TV screen . 
The year 2001 also saw the opening of Krutin Patel 's ABCD in 38 theaters nationwide . 
The film won critical acclaim for its searing look at immigrant life . 
The year saw an explosion of small independent films like A Pocketful of Dreams by Kuldip Singh Kasuri , an immigration lawyer . 
Where 's the Party Yaar ? 
It stars New York actor Sunil Malhotra . 
The achievement of Sabrina Dhawan is one instance of this . 
Young Indians are writing scripts not only for films but also for drama . 
And Mandvi , who took Sakina 's Restaurant to the UK last year , hopes to take it to India in the future . 
His is not the first effort at reform . 
Field Marshal Ayub Khan had launched a reconstruction of the country in the 1960s with a reformer 's zeal . 
Bhutto 's successor , General Zia remained wedded to the status quo , linking his survival to a cosmetic '' Islamisation '' . 
But these attempts failed , primarily because of an absence of a democratic political base that allowed space for genuine political pluralism . 
First , he needs to give the country a healing touch of reconciliation by reaching out to the political forces . 
The Herculean task that he has set out to achieve requires a large heart and a big vision . 
Second , the failure to develop '' rules of the game '' has consigned Pakistan to chronic instability . 
'' People give us money out of love for Islam , '' says Mufti Jamil , a teacher at the madarsa . 
The schooling involves indoctrination of students with the fundamental tenets of the Deobandi ideology . 
With such madarsas , the Government may find it difficult to implement the promised reforms . 
The Ayodhya controversy is trooping into the spotlight this week . 
Wants to make it a campaign that is military , diplomatic and humanitarian . 
Wants to keep the war alliance intact . 
Prefers a limited campaign with the widest global consensus . 
Has no problem fighting during Ramzan or giving a big hand to the Northern Alliance . 
It is not the coalition that is important but America . 
'' It could be used on energy routes besides the Straits of Hormuz and the South China Sea . '' 
She was touted as the next dream girl . 
Well , let 's just say the slot is still vacant . 
The figures are in and it 's below average everywhere . 
Despite the hype , kmdsp opened weak and slid further . 
'' It makes me more determined to make it . 
Then , of course , that Asian players don ` t have the stamina and speed , that their parents do not encourage sports . 
The year 2001 was an itinerant one for Shakeela . 
But January 2002 has been quiet . 
Whether you are a glam actress or a porn star , they call you a prostitute anyway . '' 
For over a month now , Shakeela has not been doing too well . 
'' Some actors in Kerala don ` t want me to work because my films make more money than theirs , '' she rasps . 
'' There 's a lot of political pressure to ban my films . 
So producers are not coming forward . 
A few days ago it wasn ` t possible . 
This made it difficult to attract highly mobile people with the special talents that are required in a modern economy . 
With HSMP in place , an employer no longer needs to obtain a work permit to call in a highly skill person from abroad . 
Nor are detailed business and investment plans necessary as required in other business categories . 
There is no room in India for outsiders ... '' 
We come from a line of priests . 
We were attached to a certain temple . 
We of the temple priesthood and our families made a community . 
Why have the Dalits suddenly turned to the private sector ? 
For the first time , the Dalit imagination has moved away from reservation and government jobs . 
'' They have put forth their demand in the language of the New Age economy . '' 
The corporate sector has responded warily . 
'' If job quotas are imposed on us we won ` t be able to compete internationally , '' cautions industrialist Arun Bharat Ram . 
Merit , not caste , matters in the private sector , he asserts . 
Prasad rebuts Ram 's claims . '' 
All we are asking for is equal opportunity . '' 
India has had a poor track record of converting FDI approvals into inflows . 
That 's not new . 
What is new are the frank appraisals of commercial issues at a diplomatic level . 
Blackwill 's speech just shows the level of discontent among American MNCs over reforms and government policies . 
Nobody ever accused the Yadav couple of playing by the rulebook . 
Just before Republic Day , Laloo was released from one of his innumerable stints in prison . 
They wanted to evict the infilitrators but were persuaded not to by top police officials , who feared violence . 
Laloo was , as usual , blissful in his ignorance . 
Send him to Pakistan . 
Pakistan has , however , refused to identify the officials at this stage . 
Complicating matters further is the belief of some investigators that Pearl 's case is actually one of ransom . 
In fact , WSJ 's executive editor wrote an open letter to the captors seeking more confidential and frequent contact . 
Little is known whether Pearl is still alive . 
'' He may have just been the bait , '' says Yusuf , '' an unknowing pawn in the kidnappers ' game plan . '' 
For reporters pursuing stories on underground militant movements , things may never be the same again . 
At least not in savings bank accounts . 
Since funds flow into the FD automatically , no paper work is required . 
Second , money never sits idle in a savings account which offers a measly interest rate of 4 per cent . 
For a Gold Card , the PPF account must have a balance of Rs 75COMMA000 , with at least Rs 20COMMA000 invested last year . 
For the International and Classic cards , the balance required is Rs 25COMMA000 , with at least Rs 5COMMA000 deposited last year . 
The PPF account should be at least a year old . 
Early estimates show that all investors who applied for 1COMMA000 shares got full allotment , with shares worth Rs 40 crore issued to them . 
Rs 2COMMA496 crore was the total net amount invested in all mutual funds in the past one year . 
For much of its existence , the paper resisted change though the city in which it was the undisputed leader changed beyond recognition . 
It wasn ` t too long ago that HT was derisively referred to the only '' Punjabi newspaper written in the Roman script '' . 
Then industrialist K . 
And despite the competition resorting to discounts and price cuts , HT circulation soared . 
DDCA president and Union Law Minister Arun Jaitley was expected to transform the most unprofessionally managed cricket association in the country . 
Haq 's brother Haji Qadir is the former governor of the strategic Nangarhar province and a leader of the Northern Alliance . 
He was , however , betrayed by an informer and killed by the Taliban . 
Islamabad prefers an ethnically riven neighbor . 
Historically , when united , Afghanistan 's tribes have been hostile to Pakistan . 
Haq 's wife and family were murdered by the Taliban in Peshawar in 1999 . 
Jaitley says , '' Delhi is a city of freedom fighters . 
Everyone fights for free stuff . '' 
The DDCA makes the last days of the Roman Empire look like a vipassana camp . 
The ad in bold capital letters hits the eye . 
This was in 1997 . 
The ad had fetched Fair Pharma over Rs 10 crore . 
The IHO launched action against Majeed 's claims , and its complaint was taken up by the Crime Branch . 
The Naxalite threat in southern Maharashtra and proximity of the Chhattisgarh border where poacher gangs operate freely add to the tiger 's woes . 
Shortage of funds is another hurdle . 
Too much time in the sun , you think ? 
New Zealand have beaten Australia three times in their last four games . 
Against England a bunch of young batsmen who were put in front of the headlights of pressure , froze . 
Strangely each of them had begun looking like they could . 
Former India batsman Dilip Sardesai says , '' They need some experience in the middle order . '' 
Singh thinks a reason for the regular panic could be because none of the newcomers bats so low for their state teams . 
Each of those 23 games could be a rung up a ladder or lurch down a blind alley . 
If selections made from now fulfil whims rather than filling slots , the team is doubly doomed . 
I 'll get you the runs . 
By the time 2003 comes around , one of '' the Boys '' will have to be that man . 
Or is it ? 
In Paktia and Khowst , local governor and former Taliban supporter Badshah Khan is battling with Saifullah Khan , a Zahir Shah supporter . 
Reports say 60 persons were killed in clashes on January 30 . 
In Nangarhar province , Governor Abdul Qadir faces threat from local warlord Hazarat Ali , who has a strong Pakistani link . 
The situation in Baghlan province is also precarious with Ismaili Governor Syed Nadu Kyan unsettled by the forces led by Tajik General Himmanuddin . 
But the glitches were manageable this time round . 
The Government was elated . 
Jaswant drafted a letter lauding the efforts of the uae Government , particularly the Sheikh , in bringing the criminal to book . 
Any mention of Begum Sumru in history books is likely to be confined to the footnotes . 
Sumru 's last master , Shah Alam , the emperor of Delhi , awarded him the jagir of Sardhana . 
Three years after her husband 's death , the begum converted to Christianity and took on the name Joanna . 
Begum Sumru 's attempt at stabbing herself only resulted in a little loss of blood . 
There is an urgent need for member countries to ease the handing over of wanted criminals by amending laws . 
As he entered the courtroom , Sheikh removed the shawl despite the protestations of the policemen ringing him . 
And then , as the police sought to take his judicial remand , he asked the judge for permission to make a statement . 
When he was allowed , he admitted to kidnapping Pearl . 
'' Right or wrong , I had my reasons , '' he said in a low tone . 
'' But look how the sari has survived . 
Its unstitched quality gives it many possibilities for individualism , '' she says . 
The luscious new look of the sari began when some Indian designers decided to make the sari a canvas for their creativity . 
These designers have combined varying textures , designs and weaves . 
Kapur combines handloom bustiers with her saris , which are an amalgamation of textile traditions from different parts of India . 
A queer mix , perhaps , but a fascinating one attracting more and more women . 
It is a heady mix of elegance , sex appeal , feminine mystery , individuality and adaptability . 
Like tradition , the sari has kept its acceptability and appeal intact down the ages . 
Unlike any other piece of clothing across the world , the sari is the garment of the past with limitless possibilities for the future . 
What took me there were rumors that something significant and surprisingly unobserved was going on within . 
For a chief minister who prides himself on an unsullied reputation , Naveen Patnaik is going to unseemly lengths to protect it . 
It all began with two cbi inquiries into alleged scams in the Water Resources and Agriculture Department during the previous Congress regime . 
Today , the agency is probing no less than six irregularities . 
Patnaik has also instituted eight judicial inquiries while the Crime Branch of the Orissa Police is investigating nine alleged improprieties . 
'' I order probes because my Government has little to hide , '' explains the chief minister . 
Patnaik 's untainted image may yet be his strongest asset . 
Failure to do this can lead to their membership being terminated . 
But it 's not always as easy to disqualify an MP . 
Instead of a disqualification motion , an obituary motion was adopted on February 21 . 
Most parliamentarians don ` t mind giving a long rope to colleagues who often absent themselves from the House . 
'' It is a fraternity where every member looks out for the interests of every other member , '' says S . 
This is also the reason for growing lack of interest among the MPs towards parliamentary proceedings . 
Though most of the party leaders express concern at lack of attendance in the House , not many are willing to offer concrete suggestions . 
'' He has some genuine problems about which he has kept me abreast . 
Clearly , manufacturers are taking advantage of our craze for things '' phoren '' . 
An exhibition is currently on at New York , Boston 's next . 
The lobsters are a welcome break too . 
A recent Madhya Pradesh Public Service Commission recruitment ad created a furore . 
The reason proferred was that the huge backlog of reserved posts left no room for backward or general category aspirants . 
Ministers , MPs and party workers ask each other in puzzled tones , what is going wrong ? 
Why did the temple evoke so little response ? 
During the campaign , the BJP leaders did their best to stress the importance of Hindu nationalism in these troubled times . 
What is going wrong ? 
He should have realised that when it comes to playing the caste game , he is an amateur compared to Mulayam and Mayawati . 
To come back to governance , the problem in the BJP lies at the very top . 
The prime-minister prime minister 's approach to governance has been to continue ruling in the same way as everyone did before him . 
There are in Delhi government departments so obsolete that they should have been closed down years ago . 
Why do they continue to exist ? 
There are officials who fritter away taxpayers ' money on things that nobody needs them to be doing . 
We do not need them to organise film festivals or even writers ' conferences . 
We do not need a Ministry of Information & Broadcasting or a Press Information Bureau or a Ministry of Food Processing . 
We do need bigger and more powerful ministries dealing with social and physical infrastructure . 
The two face each other as leaders of rival political parties heading the nation 's executive and the legislature . 
For Wickremesinghe 's Government , fighting is not a viable option . 
It has inherited an empty treasury and an economy that is in recession . 
'' But the biggest advantage for Popstars is that the concept is built around media , '' he adds . 
'' If the girls make for a good act , they have tremendous scope . '' 
For now , the '' scope '' depends on hype . 
'' We needed some uniformity , especially at the beginning of the auditions , in order to be fair , '' explains Mudgal . 
Star voices , say audition gurus Chowta and Mudgal , need to communicate emotion , have a '' smile '' and a zingy uniqueness . 
Chowta says , '' Some girls protested when they were not selected . 
That 's exactly the kind of attitude we wanted . 
Girls who could talk back , who think they are worth it . '' 
Roshan , voice trainer for the qualifying 20 , believes most possessed good voices but is not so sure about their future commitment . 
'' There is a strong sense of wanting to make it quick . '' 
Irrationally , high freight rates pay for artificially low passenger fares . 
As Railways lost freight share to roads , it was caught in a double whammy of falling revenue growth and steep rise in costs . 
The budget also attempts to tap alternative sources of funding , including the private sector , PSUs and state governments . 
Worsening financial conditions , rising wage bill and high operational cost due to lack of focus demand drastic measures . 
But keeping political compulsions in mind , this was the best the minister could do . 
Okram ibobi singh has been propelled to the hot seat in Manipur . 
The films have not created local stars yet . 
Since the films are made for a predominantly Chhattisgarhi audience , local colors are preferred . 
The themes conform to Chhattisgarhi tastes . 
So soft , romantic family dramas and mythologicals dominate . 
Years ago , Jai Santoshi Maa had done thundering business all over Chhattisgarh , running for almost two years in some towns . 
'' So , the blanket ban was really the only effective way to prevent the killing of sharks . '' 
The ministry source , however , disagrees , saying enforcement takes time . '' 
Neither has the MOEF set a period to estimate shark numbers , blaming it on shortage of funds . 
The sobering reference to Gujarat was obvious . 
Yet there were doubts . 
The political context of the Shankaracharya 's move is no less important . 
Almost like Gandhi redux in religion . 
Does the pigeon have a point ? 
Ask , he beams . 
You ask , but he says , '' No English . '' 
We need to ask ourselves why . 
Why can they not be ordered instantly to stop their temple building activities in Ayodhya ? 
If they need work to do , let them go to Gujarat and rebuild the mosques and Muslim shrines that the mobs destroyed . 
Let them do penance by helping the victims rebuild their ravaged lives . 
Once again religious violence is searing the land . 
Once again the economy is in the doldrums . 
Once again pessimism and hopelessness are having a field day . 
There is one profound difference between the world of a dozen years ago and today . 
Especially after September 11 2001 , the global community is less tolerant of religious bigotry and the violence it foments . 
'' I am not through with my training yet but don ` t get worked up so easily now . 
Besides , Selvam has infused in me an urge to preserve this dying martial art . '' 
The inspiration follows from example . 
Despite the measly Rs 500 the state Government grants him as pension for promoting the martial art , Selvam 's devotion is complete . 
And age is no barrier . 
He neither smokes nor drinks , and any free time is spent acting in dramas and singing devotional songs . 
It is becoming clearer now that the recent round of riots was not an immediate reaction to the burning of Ram sevaks at Godhra . 
Or was it plain administrative inefficiency ? 
The Bhavnagar madarsa management denies such charges . 
But that was then , the stuff of memory . 
D ` Souza asked the sprinkling of journalists sitting before him in Kuala Lumpur , '' Tell me guys , is this the way ? 
I am supposed to sit on the bench , assist and advise and attend press conferences as if nothing has happened . 
Who is the chief coach here ? '' 
There were no replies . 
D ` Souza flew back to Mumbai , replaced by his assistant C . 
Former India players reporting on the World Cup were shocked . 
'' I really don ` t understand what the team is playing , '' said former star forward Jagbir Singh . 
'' You don ` t want to play the traditional system , fine . 
But this is neither here nor there . '' 
Kumar now says the team 's failings were tactical . 
'' We were going wrong tactically in the previous matches . 
That 's what I am trying to do . '' 
With substitutions coming in fast and furious , the team was unable to settle down . 
When the Indians lost their fourth match to England , dissension broke out in the ranks . 
A few team members accused captain Baljit Singh Dhillon and his brother Daljit of trying to score goals on their own . 
According to D ` Souza 's rules , no player who missed a camp would be eligible for selection . 
Star forward Pillay had missed a camp and , therefore , the World Cup qualifiers . 
Saini , who had chicken pox and couldn ` t participate in the World Cup camp , made it to the team . 
Daljit replaced Gagan Ajit , on the ground that Gagan was not in good form before the World Cup . 
The works of the two gifted abstract painters from Madhya Pradesh are showing at Delhi 's Art Today gallery . 
It will be a quicker , more comfortable and picturesque route to the richest Hindu temple of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirupathi in Andhra Pradesh . 
For 30 years the ropeway project had been hanging fire . 
'' The new route halves travel time from Tirupathi to Tirumala to 20 minutes , '' says APTDC Chairman C . 
It is designed to ferry 1COMMA000 people an hour . 
For about one lakh pilgrims who visit the temple on auspicious days , this could be another blessing from heaven . 
Call 1077 for your district magistrate . 
The rush to delist has raised several disturbing questions . 
How will corporate India react ? 
And where do investors stand ? 
But first some numbers . 
This number rose to eight in 2000 and almost doubled to 14 in 2001 . 
More importantly , the money MNCs forked out for buying these shares was Rs 153.38 crore in 1999 . 
If the delisting plans materialise , whatever little depth the Indian stock markets have will be further reduced . 
The top 50 stocks account for more than 90 per cent of the trading volumes on Indian stock exchanges . 
Yet , the move has made the market nervous . 
Delisting is not the only way MNCs are opting to stay out of the Indian stock markets . 
Korean car manufacturer Hyundai though is not averse to going public as per its agreement next year . 
While everybody is concerned at the delisting trend no one is pressing for stalling it through a fiat . 
'' Instead of preventing delisting by MNCs , we need to introspect on why it is happening , '' argues Das . 
As long as it remains small , who would want to get listed here ? '' 
Some also see a silver lining in the flight of MNCs from the capital market . 
Or do they ? 
I can not understand either why Muslims should have any problems giving up the idea of building another mosque in Ayodhya . 
In view of what happened to the Babri Masjid , do we need another mosque there ? 
The problem is that when you begin discourse from that premise there is little room for discussion or debate . 
In a situation fraught with ugly possibilities and frightening tensions he succeeded in coming up with what seemed like an acceptable compromise . 
The Delhi grapevine has it that this was a deliberate move to force a political crisis on the A . 
In the world that changed so dramatically on 9 11 , we were beginning to look like the best of all countries . 
Godhra changed all that and , clearly , somebody intended that it should . 
The mahant of the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas is not sure about his age . 
Maybe 92 , '' it is the same as my friend Satyanarain '' . 
He spent his childhood in Singhipur near Patna till 1939 when rama '' beckoned '' him to Ayodhya . 
His was the first petition on the dispute . 
Paramhans is most comfortable in front of TV cameras . 
But he knows this wouldn ` t have been possible without his dreams . 
Only that , at times they turn into nightmares in distant Godhra , Mumbai or Bhopal . 
Did Sorabjee set himself up as the fall guy ? 
The Government 's position was discussed in a meeting of A . 
The puja was only a formality . 
Everyone agreed , except Mahajan . 
Vajpayee consulted neither the Cabinet nor the NDA before agreeing to the puja . 
History for the Record 
Local people believe it was built over an 11th century temple . 
Hindus begin offering prayers . 
For the streetfighter of radical Islam , the past is perfumed glory on a magic carpet . 
For the radical Hindu , it is a Vedic republic of permanent bliss . 
He was let down by politics , so he sought mythology . 
That politics , in retrospect , was rooted in a false ideology . 
Secularism , like communalism , is essentially an Indian ism , and like every other ism , it is a conceit . 
The political conceit of the Congress century . 
And the Bharatiya Janata Party was always translated in the foreign media as the Hindu Nationalist Party . 
Maybe it was a Freudian synonym for the Indian People 's Party . 
Today he is out there on the street , enraged and unforgiving . 
Once again , he is arguing with history as well as mythology , and arguments in religion have always been violent . 
The enemy has to earn his tolerance . 
As smoke starts to lift and flames flicker away from the carcass that was once a community , a structure begins to take shape . 
That 's all there 's left of it , a misshapen frame . 
A splintered psyche jutting ominously , a fractured faith protruding starkly . 
As part of the crusade , a large number of leaflets are being circulated in the state . 
They warn against employing Muslims , buying from them or selling to them . 
Though the Gujarat VHP leaders deny having published the leaflet , they add that the prevailing atmosphere is a natural corollary . 
'' The Muslims find themselves at a dead end , '' says J . 
Ali is one of the fortunate few whose restaurant in Ahmedabad escaped destruction . 
Much like the Dawoodi Bohras who too suffered an immense loss of life and property this time . 
What he doesn ` t say is that there may not be many period pieces left to be stolen . 
The Alliance is openly hostile to Pakistan , accusing it of nurturing the Taliban regime . 
There are already murmurs that Musharraf let the US take him for a ride and that America will now find Pakistan dispensable . 
Washington insists military realities on the ground outpaced the political process . 
Mumbai led the overall casualty figures , both nationwide and in Maharashtra . 
In Gujarat , Surat and Ahmedabad were the worst hit . 
This inverse relationship between caste and communal politics has been true of Tamil Nadu and Kerala for many decades . 
Kerala is especially significant as Muslims have constituted over 20 per cent of its population for a long time . 
Due to the clout of their principal party , the Muslim League , Muslims have received many concessions . 
This inverse relationship suggests another important conclusion . 
Chung calls Kolkata the '' purest Hakka center '' outside China . 
For more than a century and a half , the Hakka people have been a quaint extension of Kolkata 's cosmopolitan life . 
The British , French and Portuguese left after Independence . 
The women were initially reluctant because few realised the value of savings . 
Thus began a movement . 
As the groups grew in size and number , the kitty too grew fatter . 
Soon women began setting up their own businesses , such as brick kilns and units collecting and processing forest products . 
Some borrowed from the kitty while others approached banks for loans . 
With savings becoming a habit , loan defaults were a rarity and the size of the common fund remained healthy . 
The women discovered a new side to themselves . 
ATMs are more than machines that give you cash on request . 
They can give a customer his account statement , accept cash and cheque deposits , even process an application for a new cheque book . 
In Delhi , Airtel subscribers can top up their prepaid mobile phone card at an ATM . 
Anything to prevent a customer from visiting a branch to withdraw money or deposit a cheque . 
This has more than quadrupled the ATM reach of these banks . 
Early this year , Standard Chartered launched a debit card that could be used at ATMs of all banks in the Visa network . 
Customers won ` t visit banks for withdrawing money or depositing cheques but to get expert investment advice . 
They will become retail outlets for insurance , mutual funds and loans . 
Consumer and housing loans will also be important revenue streams . 
While all these changes sound phenomenal , the teething troubles are also beginning to show up . 
Many banks are finding it difficult to manage their growth . 
Internet sites are often down , ATMs are often too crowded , nullifying the very purpose for which they were set up . 
'' There is no point in continuing in power if you lose your credibility . '' 
Vajpayee , for once , was rendered speechless . 
'' The only link now is that some swayamsevaks are in the Government , '' said RSS spokesman M . 
The indictment couldn ` t have been stronger . 
Vaidya 's statement created a flutter in the party circles . 
By political convention , such a controversy is resolved with a clarification or an explanatory statement . 
But it would be an exaggeration to say that there is a danger of the RSS calling it quits . 
The RSS leadership is expected to vociferously raise the Hindutva pitch , unmindful of its consequences for the NDA Government . 
The statement expectedly came in for sharp criticism from the Opposition , some NDA partners as well as a section of BJP leaders . 
Even the usually laidback parliamentary backbenchers are getting restive . 
'' At least , the party 's ideological moorings were intact then '' , the party leaders say . 
Whenever the two have operated in tandem , the results have been encouraging . 
Another had been convened in Peshawar a month ago under the aegis of moderate Pashtoon leader Pir Sayed Ahmed Gilani . 
This is especially possible if the Pashtoons come to see the Northern Alliance as marginalising their influence in Afghanistan . 
Musharraf stated in a recent interview that there appeared no alternative to Shah '' at the moment '' . 
Shah 's representatives in Rome were critical of the Alliance for reneging on its promises to the former king to not enter Kabul . 
No goodwill and no safety , the RSS explains , unless Muslims '' respect , tolerate and cooperate '' with the Hindus . 
What remains unclear is who is going to decide whether the Muslims are behaving themselves or not , or when open season begins . 
Should they consider themselves unsafe because Muslim terrorists kill Hindu villagers in Kashmir ? 
The prime-minister prime minister is right when he says that we need the economy to grow at 8 per cent . 
There are other swadeshi ideas the RSS economists have thrown up which if followed would guarantee permanent poverty for India . 
Ironically , the one person they have helped most through their obduracy is Congress President Sonia Gandhi . 
When the next election gives us our first Italian prime-minister prime minister the RSS can take full credit . 
Garv se kaho hum Hindu hain . 
He interacts with the devotees and accepts donations , which need not always be referred to the headquarters for sanction . 
But the temple president has little control over the initiation of devotees . 
Its progress did not stop with the master 's death or with the changing times . 
Yet another ran off with his massage-therapist massage therapist . 
For a clear first preference victory , Sinha needs 41 votes . 
All in all , a pretty kettle of fish . 
Ananth Kumar 's term in the Union Cabinet can easily be described as travels from one controversy to another . 
He is 52 . 
One never came across a whole village of blacksmiths , as in contemporary Russia or Burma . 
Generations of such workers have provided India with a long and glorious tradition of artistic handicrafts of a varied nature . 
Among the textiles , cotton cloth has played a great role in our history and also in our relations with the outside world . 
Cotton is mentioned in the writings of Manu in 800 B C 
The fine Dacca muslin was the envy of the world for centuries together . 
Unfortunately , the Indian cotton was of a poor quality and it was the high workmanship that earned India a name for her fabrics . 
Indian silks , brocades and embroidery have to this day preserved their uniqueness and beauty . 
It is a proud monument to the forging and fabricating ingenuity of ancient India . 
It has also been said that the famous Damascus blades were made from steel imported from India . 
The ancient Indian was a master at manipulating metal . 
These , however , depended on the availability of certain raw materials and the presence of specialised knowledge . 
On the whole , they were insignificant and later met the same fate as the other two categories . 
It was the precursor of the industrial revolution . 
Modernisation of agriculture and transport was the basic change brought about by the commercial revolution . 
Europe changed fast during these two centuries and these changes were to have a profound impact on India 's relations with the West . 
The Company did not alter either the ways or the organization of the indigenous industry . 
It bought goods through the dealers or direct from the craftsmen , depending upon the circumstances . 
In Madras the Company also tried to attract the workers to seek employment in workshops as in the days of the old courts . 
The acquisition of political power by the Company , however , spelt harm to Indian commercial interests . 
In the process they did great damage to industry in Bengal during the years following the Battle of Plassey . 
It was too late by the time the Company realised that it was killing the goose that laid the golden egg . 
The famed Dacca muslin industry became almost extinct the moment the prop of the royal court was removed . 
In specific cases , it even encouraged and helped their growth in order to sustain its own trade with England . 
It was no longer necessary to hold India by force or by political power . 
Once the Lancashire industry was able to attain enough competitive strength and the Indian industries were sapped of their vitality , tariffs were abolished . 
The government 's responsibility even in respect of technical education , commercial intelligence , survey and exploration of mineral resources , etc . 
On all counts , therefore , the railways contributed little towards the revival or the development of industries . 
Free trade together with the railway policies sounded the death knell of Indian enterprise . 
This meant the employment of a stable labor force and the use of modern equipment and methods of production . 
The story of the unhappy relations between the European planters and the Indian cultivators makes a pathetic reading . 
Some of the early planters were slave drivers from America from whom civilised behavior could scarcely be expected . 
British capital and enterprise were the first in the field . 
This was the beginning of the tea industry in India . 
Tea plantation offered a further and fresh scope for European capital and enterprise . 
Labour had to be transported later from a distance , but that was not a serious bottleneck . 
The Company undertook in all earnestness its program of tea plantation . 
However , the teething troubles were soon overcome and the Company started showing handsome profits . 
There was qualitative improvement as well . 
During these years , output increased out of all proportion to the expansion of acreage . 
As a result , Indian tea succeeded in driving out Chinese tea from the European markets . 
But in the meanwhile , Ceylon emerged as a competitor . 
As a consequence , there was a fall in the acreage and output between 1902 and 1906 . 
This was disastrous enough , but a greater tragedy was soon to befall the industry . 
The area under coffee progressively increased after 1860 and was 237COMMA500 acres in 1885 . 
Within the next ten years it was up at 274COMMA000 acres . 
Exports , which constituted about 95 per cent of the crop , were , however , generally steady . 
Till the middle of the 19th century , transport facilities in India were poor and inadequate and had remained unchanged for centuries . 
Canals in India had never played the same role as those in England or on the continent . 
This led commentators like R . 
The guarantee system was discontinued and the second phase of the railway construction began . 
The lines were making profits , and the shares were quoted at a premium . 
The third and , for decades , the final phase was inaugurated in 1880 . 
In the following years , government , continuing as it did with direct construction , encouraged private companies once again . 
This time there was no guarantee , but invariably financial assistance had to be provided by the government . 
At the same time , some of the native states undertook construction of railways within their own jurisdiction . 
However , railway policy remained unsettled for the next few years . 
Famines underscored the need for faster construction , but the Afghan war caused a diversion of resources . 
For the next few years , despatches continued to be exchanged between the Secretary of State and the Indian government . 
Were railways the preservers and promoters of economic and commercial institutions and interests ? 
Or did they disintegrate and destroy them ? 
There also emerged a freight structure , which encouraged foreign trade at the expense of internal trade . 
But the rates policy , which remained unchanged till 1914 , adversely affected the later industrial growth . 
So , more than the railways , it was the rates policy that merited criticism . 
Was it not possible to reduce this cost ? 
Indiscriminate competition between companies harmed the interests of the community . 
The financial effect of the railways was the main target of the critics . 
After 1900 , the railways started earning profits , except in a few bad years at intervals . 
This is a controversial issue of only historical significance . 
Not till nosey Maneka arrived did anyone discover that the documents related not to Indian history but to 14th century Russian military history . 
Some sly professor had used taxpayers ' money for his personal research . 
Is it then any surprise that Vajpayee should be so full of praise for Indira 's approach to art ? 
Any surprise that Maneka should get the chop and Sonia words of praise ? 
Any surprise that we should ask if he is joining the Congress party ? 
These contrasts in economic developement in India and Europe are of significance in a comparative study of the growth process . 
Coal mining as such was unknown before the Europeans arrived in India . 
They too remained uninterested for about 200 years , though back home they had a thriving coal industry . 
The East India Company found it more convenient to ship coal from England as ballast rather than explore the prospects of indigenous production . 
He initiated tests to establish the quality of the indigenous coal . 
The results , however , were unfavourable as it was later discovered that the coal samples were not correctly chosen . 
In the meanwhile , Bengal coal was in fact being used for local manufacture . 
No mines were , however , opened in the next twenty years . 
The output of the Raniganj mine was 36COMMA000 tonnes by that time . 
Three more mines were opened between 1840 and 1854 . 
The laying of the railways facilitated the movement of the coal and also created a market for it . 
The opening of the East Indian Railway in 1854 which ran through the coal areas of Bengal , provided a stimulus to the industry . 
The most important mines opened up in later years were Jharia and Giridih , of which Jharia before long overshadowed even Raniganj . 
Imports , however , continued to increase in the beginning , because demand for coal , particularly from the railways , outstripped indigenous output . 
Imports were also necessitated by the imbalance in the regional dispersal of coal mines . 
Here a proper railway rates policy would have played a positive role . 
Railway freights were high , though even the maritime rates were no less onerous . 
The bulk of the imports had its destination in Bombay and western India . 
But imports declined steadily towards the end of the last century , and more rapidly after 1900 . 
In 1880 , there were 20COMMA000 persons employed . 
Against this phenomenal growth of the industry must be set some of its limitations and deficiencies . 
We have already observed the regional imbalance in coal deposits . 
The next proposal of smelting iron ore was mooted by Heath , an official of the East India Company , around 1815 . 
But production on any significant scale was started only at these two places . 
The steel produced was said to be of a high quality and had a ready market in England . 
However , even though production continued , these enterprises were not a financial success . 
Heath 's debts to the Company mounted . 
Even so , it did not symbolise the spirit of swadeshi as forcefully and tellingly as did Tata 's solitary adventure . 
Modern factory production was a new phenomenon in India when the first textile mills were started . 
But textile technology did not constitute such a revolutionary departure from the past as did steel technology . 
Moreover , the textile industry grew through diffused efforts , each involving little risk and comparatively much less capital . 
Tata realised that it was essential first to establish the existence of coal and iron ores in close proximity to make steel making viable . 
On investigation , Tata , however , found that there were difficulties in working the Loharu iron ore deposits . 
In spite of a chain of failures , some experts were sanguine that a viable steel industry was possible in India . 
One such was Gen . 
Before returning home , Tata visited Germany and the United States , and brought with him a consultancy metallurgical engineer . 
And thus a hectic search was on for a resource base for an iron and steel industry . 
The next area to be investigated was Durg district in the Central Provinces . 
Here the iron ores were abundant , but there was no coal nearby . 
In the past , most of the capital for investment in India was raised in the London money-market money market . 
Serious doubts were entertained about the availability of capital in India and the readiness of the investors to risk it . 
There were historical reasons for this . 
Cheap Lancashire yarn had found a large ready market in India . 
Moreover , they also soon realised that they could push this advantage still further by capturing the markets of China and also of Japan . 
Yarn exports were on the whole subject to fluctuations due to economic and political reasons . 
The exports were not , however , very considerable , being valued only at about Rs 2 crores or so . 
At the same time , its imports were reduced to a negligible figure . 
Thus , both in output and exports , Japan had forged ahead of India on the eve of the war . 
However , by 1914 , if Japan 's imports were insignificant , India 's imports were twice as much as its mills could produce . 
Only one more mill , viz . 
But a virtual boom set in during the next few years . 
Between 1860 and 1880 some twenty more mills were established . 
The Association was not called upon to resort to regulation of output during the next three decades . 
But what made the Calcutta industry impregnable was the ' absurdly low price ' of jute . 
This gave Indian mills a tremendous competitive advantage . 
As we have seen , the initial capital for the industry came from England . 
Gradually , the proportion of rupee capital substantially increased . 
Rahul Gandhi , son of former prime-minister prime-minister prime minister Rajiv Gandhi and once a Rajpal trainee , gifted an imported air pistol . 
So did Jayant Singh , son of Union Agriculture Minister Ajit Singh . 
All these have helped . 
Shooting has even helped Rajpal 's two sons find jobs with the Indian Airlines . 
Even so , the figures must be cautiously used in view of the changes in definitions and methodology used from census to census . 
However , the fact of preponderance of agriculture and the insignificance of industry stand out unmistakably . 
It is difficult to assess the total capital invested in industry or in the allied sectors of transport , banking , etc . 
In the preceding chapters , investment in individual industries has been indicated wherever possible , but the information is not always precise and comprehensive . 
But the war once again clinched the issue . 
The hostilities made imports difficult and stimulated home industries . 
Even that symbol , the last vestige of free trade policy , viz . 
Thus protection was automatically provided during the war years . 
Exchange trouble had deprived us of the Chinese market for yarn by the turn of the century . 
As the price of silver rose , the exchange rate appreciated reaching 2s to a rupee in 1920 . 
This discouraged exports and stimulated imports . 
Then the tide turned ; the world boom burst and rupee value started sliding . 
Within a year it slumped from 2s to 1s 3d . 
This it reached in 1924 , when government promptly stepped in to peg it there . 
But , when in 1925 the British sterling went back to gold , there was further appreciation of the rupee . 
The situation was further aggravated when the unprecedented world depression set in after 1929 . 
Worn out locomotives were in operation . 
As a result , a forceful public opinion in favor of state ownership of the railways was built up . 
As a sequel to the Acworth Committee 's report , ambitious expansion programs were contemplated . 
In 1935 , all payments to the general revenues were suspended . 
The net earnings slumped in the early thirties . 
Freight charges were among the lowest in the world , and were justified by the peculiar circumstances in the country . 
In fact carriage of coal at the existing rates to distant centres was uneconomic , and imported coal was found cheaper at many places . 
Here , therefore , was another aspect of the policy needing scrutiny . 
By the turn of the last century , there were 37COMMA000 miles of metalled and 136COMMA000 miles of unmetalled roads . 
Automobiles were a rare phenomenon in India before 1914 . 
But their number increased rapidly since . 
Freight movement by trucks increased as feeder to the railways . 
Imports of motor cars increased from 3COMMA000 in 1913 to about 20COMMA000 a year on the eve of the depression . 
An equal number of commercial vehicles were imported every year at this time . 
In the meanwhile , efforts were being made to improve road conditions . 
The Indian Road Development Committee recommended in 1928 the setting up of a central road fund , which came into being the following year . 
The Committee 's other recommendations , like holding of periodical conferences , abolition of road tolls , etc . 
This was in marked contrast to the developments in other countries . 
Only a beginning had been made in civil aviation . 
So the railways remained under constant strain and presented a picture of congestion , crowding and inadequacy . 
The coal industry was no exception . 
With growing shortages , the government had to intervene with monopoly procurement , embargo on exports , and price and distribution controls . 
Coastal shipping of coal came to a halt , and the entire burden of coal movement fell on the railways . 
Coal production increased from 16 million tons in 1913 to 20 million tons in 1920 . 
Then production declined slightly but soon picked up and reached 20 million tons in 1926 . 
During this period , the share of indigenous coal in total consumption was increasing . 
It slowly improved to Rs 10.6 crores in 1938 . 
But the consequent economic crisis and the later depression pushed the smaller and less efficient units out of the field . 
In many cases , machinery was not properly or fully used , or it was just left to rust . 
The large number of companies managing small units resulted in an uneconomic scale of production , heavy overhead charges and poor profitability . 
In spite of shallow mines and cheap labor , these deficiencies of organization , techniques of production and poor quality constituted serious handicaps . 
The trade union influence in Japanese industry was yet to develop , while it was already very strong in India , particularly in Bombay . 
Downward adjustment of wages was vehemently resisted in India and the Bombay mills were plagued by frequent labor strikes . 
The Japanese Factory Act allowed the employment of children below sixteen and did not enforce any working hours for adult labor . 
Thus labor conditions were certainly inferior in Japan . 
The employment of children and women at night made double shift working possible there . 
Japan had some legitimate advantage in its better climate and lack of social inhibition in regard to the employment of cheap female labor . 
The tariff policy had to be oriented to revenue needs in the first instance . 
Depreciating yen once again was a factor favoring the Japanese . 
The Board was asked to work out the implications of this constraint . 
Both imports and exports declined through the early thirties , and imports continued to fall thereafter also . 
What was of more significance was that the Indian mills could now meet almost all domestic requirements . 
The USA bought over 60 per cent of our gunny bags . 
Our exports of twist and yarn found their way to almost all countries . 
However , the world demand was falling and , pressed by the depression , the search for cheaper substitutes gained an edge . 
The government initiated proposals for crop restriction , research and development of markets . 
In spite of profitability of pig iron production , the Company converted most of it into finished steel to relieve steel-shortage steel-shortage steel shortage . 
The team found ample scope for exports . 
But the Company concentrated on meeting the war needs . 
The higher capacity was expected to meet the growing demand for galvanised sheets , bars and plates . 
There was also a fall in the internal demand , and a labor strike in 1928 rendered the Tatas ' position vulnerable . 
Thus further protection was necessitated . 
It was creditable that the ensuing depression should have been weathered by the Company through continuous expansion and excellent management . 
Of the Rs 18 crores required for the GEP , as much as Rs 4 crores came from internal resources . 
All this was achieved through additions and improvements and with the use of larger ingots . 
Among the principal ' infant ' industries of this period mention must be made of sugar , paper , and matches . 
Cement and glass did not qualify for protection but they made great strides during the years between the two wars . 
We shall briefly review the progress of these ' infant ' industries . 
The Tariff Board conducted a summary enquiry in 1947 and recommended extension of protection by another two years . 
After the vigorous growth of the thirties , the industry seemed to have lost its dynamism . 
It was later exposed to the vicissitudes inherent in the nature of an industry in which multiple interests were involved . 
Production having reached a million tons , it later fluctuated quite considerably . 
These problems of the industry are discussed in detail in the next chapter . 
The modern cement industry in India originated with the First World War , when the first factory was set up at Porbandar . 
The total capacity thus reached about 5.8 lakh tons in 1924 , against an annual demand of 3.9 lakhs . 
Moreover , imports were resumed after the war . 
Thus there was a glut , causing a fall in prices and losses to the manufacturers . 
Depression , however , intervened , and the situation did not improve till 1936 . 
The Dalmia Cement Group emerged in 1937 with five factories . 
In 1939 the ACC had twelve , Dalmia five and other four factories . 
Expansion of the industry continued through the war years and by 1947 , the total installed capacity had exceeded 26 lakh tons . 
Demand for cement , however , was increasing faster , necessitating installation of further capacity . 
But , with the end of the war , foreign competition reasserted itself . 
However , foreign competition , particularly from Japan , kept on an increasing pressure on the industry . 
However , the government did not agree with this view on the plea that soda ash required by the industry was not locally available . 
The government , however , granted a rebate on imported soda ash used by the industry . 
Stimulus was once again provided by the Second World War . 
Imports stopped and the demand increased . 
The industry availed itself of this opportunity to modernize its equipment and diversify the output . 
But the difficulties of the industry reappeared as soon as the war ended . 
The industry sought protection once again , and the Tariff Board conducted an enquiry and reported in 1950 . 
Subsequently , protection was extended by one more year . 
Paper was another industry which owed its growth to protection . 
Protection was first granted in 1925 and , after periodical renewal , withdrawn in 1947 . 
Even though the expansion of the industry was not as phenomenal as that of the sugar industry , it by and large justified protection . 
A significant development after 1925 was the use of bamboo as raw material in place of imported woodpulp . 
There was no match industry in India before the twenties . 
Protection gave rise to the peculiar phenomenon of foreign manufacturers thriving behind the tariff wallsthe largest producers belonging to the Scandinavian syndicate . 
There were , however , soon many new lines of production started in order to meet the needs of civilian consumption and industrial requirements . 
The Hindustan Aircraft Company , a private enterprise , assembled its first aircraft in 1941 . 
As will be seen in a later section , the Tata Iron and Steel Company successfully developed armored cars . 
It also succeeded in manufacturing alloy and tool steels , which were vitally needed for the prosecution of the war . 
Spurred by the war , metal fabricating industries like copper , copper sheets , wires and cables were started . 
Government 's industrial policy resolution as well as its statement on foreign capital helped to clarify its stand on some basic issues . 
Labour relations continued to improve and transport bottlenecks were removed . 
Cotton , jute , steel and sugar industries , however , continued to suffer 
The industry 's profits increased by 50 per cent over the war years and had more than doubled by 1947 . 
Some economists believe higher agricultural growth could boost industry and make this happen . 
But the dull Diwali contradicts this hope . 
In essence we could well be looking at a GDP growth of less than 4.5 per cent . 
But to put it in context , one has to factor the extent of accretion in output and its multiplier effect . 
According to the RBI , the net accretion to output in the kharif crop has been 2.5 million tonnes . 
CMIE estimates that this year the rabi output will be 104 million tonnes , or 11 million tonnes more than last year . 
In other words additional spend in the rural economy will be up by around Rs 10COMMA000 crore even if one factors a multiplier effect . 
But the Finance Ministry spiked the proposal saying such a fund was not envisaged in its financial procedures . 
The ministry , however , made it clear that it was willing to provide supplementary grants as and when required . 
The plight of the navy and the air-force air force is no less . 
The navy has set its eyes on Admiral Gorshkov aircraft carrier for several years now , but the Government is still to decide . 
We are steadfastly setting about our miracle . 
I invite you all to become partners in the excitement that is India . '' 
Having finally arrived exhausted and battle weary at the car park , you have had enough excitement for the day . 
Then comes your first sight of the natives . 
In attendance were Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee , Maharashtra Chief Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh , corporate czars Anil Ambani and Nusli Wadia . 
Was the Limca Book of Records in attendance too ? 
These had been kept in stock as of June 2000 . '' 
Remember Sharma ? 
Then , First Global made the mistake of investing in a relatively unknown Internet company called Tehelka . 
It was considered a national service by most Indians but our nationalist Government saw things differently . 
It would have looked really bad if Tehelka had been directly targeted . 
Even the most unbiased observer would have seen this as an attack on freedom of the press . 
So , what did the Government do ? 
Not a single rupee of undisclosed income has been found nor have any signs of a deep , dark conspiracy . 
That has not saved the Sharmas from persecution . 
The inquiry can take forever but nobody seems to care . 
All this because they dared to invest in Tehelka . 
Then came the appeal for redressal from Ajay Jadeja , with Kapil standing by in support . 
It seems all too pat . 
If you know what you 're looking for , it 's easy to tell the difference . 
Security Officer J . 
The terrorists open fire at Yadav and kill him . 
There is an exchange of fire with Kant 's security which leads to doors into the building being shut . 
The Ambassador , forced to brake hard , veers sharply , striking one of the cars . 
There is a wall that prevents further access . 
Securitymen order all gates to be shut so that the armed men can ` t enter the main building 
He lobs several hand grenades and shoots indiscriminately from his assault rifle . 
He is shot by a commando and detonates the RDX tied around his body near the gate . 
The Parliament Secretariat is in charge of issuing passes to MPs , house staff , journalists and visitors . 
They are responsible for checking vehicle passes . 
Should a suicide bomber wants to rig a car with explosives bang in front of the main porch , he can do so effortlessly . 
The second ring comprises the W & W staff who are unarmed and plainclothes securitymen carrying small weapons . 
The W & W staff check visitors for arms and banned electronic gadgets like cell phones , cameras and taperecorders . 
Any armed security guard of an MP or minister remains outside . 
Muslims , with their tradition of purdah , can at times be secretive . 
This might be regarded as part of a permissible prettifying intention . 
'' Men might rebel ; but in the end they usually make their peace . 
Selected villagers are trained to use these facilities . 
Although the broadcast is through All India Radio , the station manages everything from scripting to program making . 
Significantly , the nature of the programming at the center , appropriately called Namma Dhwani or '' Our Voices '' , is community driven . 
As All India Radio Director H . 
Based on everyday experience , the features focus on developmental issues like literacy , health , environment and gender , besides agriculture . 
And whirlpools of air near the larynx could cause the distinctive '' nervous '' laugh . 
Nature reports that when a person sees an attractive face , a region of the brain called the ventral striatum lights up . 
The same region is activated in drug addicts and gamblers when they are about to indulge in their habit . 
Studies by the US Geological Survey have shown that dust travels widely and has an impact far away from its origin . 
It was a trend that later became common . 
As a superstar , Ashok Kumar had wilted long before the triumvirate , even though some of them were his own discoveries . 
He said , ' Hero banna chahta hoon ' . '' 
The driver of the car I hired could be coaxed to carry us to the hotel with a hefty incentive . 
Yet he was so grumpy all along that I feared he 'd suddenly park the car and disappear . 
Fact was a still bigger casualty . 
The Indian TV networks had just Deputy Prime Minister Ram Chandra Poudel saying the carnage was perpetrated by Crown Prince Dipendra , 29 . 
But Dipendra was on life support system . 
His parents , King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya , were dead , together with sister Shruti , brother Nirajan , and many other royals . 
The problem was to locate anyone who 'd attended the dinner at Tribhuvan Sadan and was alive . 
None of the survivors were prepared to talk . 
Of a king who 'd been too protective about his son . 
And a son who pressed the trigger of an assault rifle on his parents and relatives with desperation made lethal by alcohol and drug . 
That 's the stuff good stories are made of . 
Try and gauge Indian trends and the fashion world gets into a stylish knot . 
Fashion trends in India are as difficult to predict as the onset of the monsoon . 
Subtle fashion changes in the past year reflect the slight shift in trends that may stay on in 2002 . 
Go for mix and match with lace and satin , advises Azeem Khan . 
Clinch the pallav at the shoulder with a ring , says Anamika Khanna . 
Be daring and add a ruffle to the sari edges , announces Suneet Varma . 
But only the young shapely Indian woman , who could boast of a figure to die for , chanted this prayer . 
As designers geared up for the festive and bridal season , the lehngas , ghaghras , chaniyas and shararas were favorites . 
In other words be safe , not sorry . 
Tarun Tahiliani turned his attention to menswear , dressing up the male like Indian royalty , or officers and gentlemen . 
Lalit Jalan gave a firm nod to organza shirts . 
The World Meteorological Organisation in Geneva , has estimated the average temperature at 14.42 degree Celsius . 
No wonder Science has named nanotechnology 2001 's top scientific achievement . 
It had warned the RBI as far back as 1997 that gold items were adulterated . 
Tahir , a maulvi , was reportedly acting as a conduit for Al Qaida . 
But as Prasad says , '' It is only natural that we suspect everything in such scary circumstances . '' 
Therein lies the danger . 
Panic , however , spreads rapidly and is far less easy to contain . 
The threat of bioterrorism , however , is real . 
Very keen to see that this war doesn ` t turn into a clash between the West and Islam . 
The rehabilitation work in rural areas has earned the Gujarat Government the admiration of many foreign agencies involved in rebuilding the state . 
It will prove useful in case of such calamities in future . '' 
People participation and enthusiasm , however , are visibly absent in the urban areas . 
The Government is still to figure out how many of those living in the old , walled cities would shift outside . 
It is alleged that top BJP and Congress leaders too have real estate interests in these areas . 
But the couple hasn ` t touched the money yet . 
They returned with misty eyes and empty hands but they haven ` t given up yet . 
'' Some day , we will return the Rs 1.2 lakh to the Government , '' vows Mehmood . 
The desperation in his voice is unmistakable . 
Statistics are not available on the number of injections given per day in India , but the total must run to a few million . 
Even perfectly healthy citizens have needles thrust into their bodies during routine blood tests or when they take shots for hepatitis and tetanus . 
So what happens when the syringes used are themselves unclean or unsafe ? 
If Indian firms would do the same , law would no longer remain the last option for the talented . '' 
It can also classify over airborne 100 targets and map an entire air battle in seconds . 
Its acquisition will vastly enhance India 's air defense . 
Even though the radar is made in Israel , the US has used its considerable clout with its ally to regulate its sale . 
Two years ago it shot down a proposed sale to China . 
Many young , talented Asians are now playing in youth teams at Leeds . 
It is a strategy the club , whose supporters have often been accused of racism , must be seen to pursue . 
At its core is India 's first genetically modified seed , infamously called BT Cotton . 
But it is illegal to grow this crop as the Centre has not cleared it . 
All genetically modified crops need a safety clearance from regulatory bodies involving several ministries . 
But within two days , he changed his mind . 
So last week defense experts were stunned to see a short , smart version of the Agni with a range of just 700 km . 
To avoid such a complex trajectory the Agni I was born . 
There were other reasons . 
The latter offers Indian doctors an opportunity to apply directly to the authorities without going through recruitment agencies . 
Indian doctors in the UK are excited about the move and have welcomed it . 
There is a high demand for specialists in radiology and psychiatry . '' 
Also , no doctor can practise without being registered with the GMC . 
There are reportedly about 40COMMA000 Indian doctors registered with the GMC . 
The number is likely to rise under the new scheme . 
Doctors are , however , unhappy with PLAB saying Indian doctors could lose out on seniority because of such a test . 
However , this will make quick visas easier . 
Once the scheme becomes applicable to it professionals , it will be very beneficial . '' 
The scheme also facilitates the entry of foreign students graduating in the UK into the National Health System . 
At the end of the conference the state Government itself ushered in supplier diversity . 
'' We will build a new class of entrepreneurs . 
We will create Dalit millionaires . 
We have to think beyond government jobs , '' says Digvijay . 
'' The SCs and STs constitute 35 per cent of Madhya Pradesh 's population . 
Even if we fill up our backlog , we won ` t be able to provide enough jobs . '' 
The prime mover behind the Bhopal Declaration is Dalit writer Chandrabhan Prasad . 
He wants his community to come out of the bondage of reservation and explore the market . 
'' Asset ownership in the country should reflect the social spectrum , '' he says . 
Sociologist Dipankar Gupta links the demand for jobs in the private sector to the large presence of Dalits in the urban areas . 
However , his counterpart Andre Beteille flinches at the idea of extending job quotas . 
'' Social change through reservation is a 19th century idea . 
Nevertheless , in the Indian context , the Bhopal Declaration reflects the gains of Dalit politics in the past decade . 
Its importance lies in its vision of creating a Dalit middle class outside the state system , a dream fraught with interesting possibilities . 
One collage , titled '' Diwali Lamps '' , was also used by Unicef for a set of its greeting cards in 1986 . 
Does all this mean that the peace activist is commercial ? 
Peace that is priceless , one that results from piecing together the hidden treasures of life . 
Certainly , this was not the affable , polite diplomat that Blackwill has often been described as in diplomatic circles . 
But are his barbs backed by facts ? 
Unfortunately they are . 
The farmers allege the Centre 's decision was largely the result of the pressure mounted by influential pesticide manufacturers . 
Currently , 40 per cent of the Rs 2COMMA700 crore worth of pesticides produced in the country goes into protecting cotton crop . 
Naturally , the widespread use of BT Cotton , they point out , would be detrimental to the growth of pesticide companies . 
The pesticide manufacturers , on their part , say '' the charges are not only unfounded but ridiculous '' . 
It is now for the Union Government to convince the farmers about the risks . 
Despite the raging controversy , it is yet to withdraw its directive on the destruction of the BT crop . 
But unless it scientifically validates its arguments against the seed , the matter could get out of hand . 
Gujarat 's cotton farmers are waiting . 
The brutal killing of Abdul Haq has been a setback in the US plans to divide the Taliban . 
Jehadi revenge , an attempt at extorting ransom or an Indian plot to defame Pakistan ? 
Investigators now say they are on the verge of solving the case . 
Sheikh was also the man Pearl had gone to meet in Karachi . 
A few investigators , however , doubt this . 
Here 's how it works . 
If in March , he deposits another Rs 10COMMA000 , the full amount goes into a new FD . 
Suppose in April , the account-holder account holder needs to withdraw Rs 15COMMA000 . 
The bank automatically debits Rs 10COMMA000 from his savings account and Rs 5COMMA000 from the latest FD . 
The balance Rs 5COMMA000 in the March FD is shifted to the savings account . 
Filling up an application form is all they need to do to get an SBI credit card . 
Of this Rs 1COMMA55COMMA400 crore went into fixed deposits and savings accounts and Rs 17COMMA694 crore in current deposits . 
Rs 25COMMA668 crore in the past one year . 
A reason for this could be uncertain investment environment . 
The leaner , narrower page is in keeping with international trends ... 
He was also arrested . 
Strangely , the ad reappeared recently in leading newspapers . 
It now says '' killer disease '' without mentioning aids , the address is the same and Majeed 's name also figures prominently . 
Cost Rs 8COMMA800 . 
As CERC points out , victims fooled by this '' cure '' don ` t complain because of the stigma attached to aids . 
WTC might just find a way into Chennai homes now . 
Amid the hurly burly of up elections , the man nobody 's bothering to remember is ol ' Ram Prakash Gupta . 
Apparently all bills had been paid as power consumption was low anyway . 
An astonished Gupta had to call up his successor , Rajnath Singh , for the bulbs to be lit again . 
The national animal is in danger in Maharashtra . 
Most of all , far too early to panic ? 
In fact , not a moment too soon . 
Hussain , a curious mix of bottle and whine in India , said it over and over again . 
Over and over again , the Indians obliged . 
Even the three hunters at the top were guilty of fuzzy logic when the field spread and their boundaries got fewer . 
Haq was lured into Afghanistan by elements in Peshawar who promised to cross the border with him in large numbers . 
Even so , Haq was captured 20 km from Jalalabad . 
McFarlane contacted the CIA . 
Nothing helped Haq . 
American hopes are now pinned on former Afghan deputy foreign minister Hamid Karzai . 
Intelligence reports say that nearly 2COMMA000 Taliban men crossed the Durand Line into Pakistan 's North West Frontier Province and the Tribal Areas . 
Other experts say over four Taliban organizations have recently come up in Pakistan . 
The Taliban is said to be regrouping at Tshahi Kurgam which is at the tip of the Wakhan corridor in Xinjiang province in China . 
Understandable , given the fact that Washington is convinced Musharraf will deliver on his promise to tackle terrorism on its soil . 
Pakistan was asked to emulate the uae example and deport these fugitives , 14 of whom carry Indian passports . 
A 1989 protocol on handing over criminal elements to each other may now perhaps come useful . 
He was emerging as the kingpin of a crime syndicate in India . 
We have enough documentary evidence to show that he has been indulging in crimes in India . 
Does it show the complicity of the Pakistani establishment ? 
How did it happen ? 
It was the result of painstaking efforts put in by the CBI . 
The CBI team led by Neeraj Kumar planned the exercise meticulously and executed it with the finesse and secrecy it deserved . 
'' Our country shouldn ` t be catering to America 's needs . '' 
Even more sensational than his indication of his motives was Sheikh 's claim that Pearl had been killed . 
'' As far as I know , '' he said , '' he 's dead . '' 
Pearl 's kidnapping cast a cloud over Musharraf 's first state visit to the US since he seized power in 1999 . 
But the Pearl case threatened to sideline these issues , at least as far as the media were concerned . 
But the true faithful are known to look beyond the externals . 
In November they come from all over . 
'' A quarter of the devotees come from Punjab alone , '' says Father Mendonca . 
For Roque Albert , the church 's security supervisor who is named after two saints , it 's the busiest time of the year . 
'' Queues start to form from four in the morning , '' he says . 
On other days visitors can take a guided tour of the church for Re 1 . 
On display are the vestments presented to the church by the begum in 1829 . 
There is , in fact no single type of modern sari . 
Look further and another traditional sari shop , the popular Meena Bazaar has '' sari sets with innovative blouses by new designers '' . 
They now make their much loved Kanjeevarams in lighter silks , keeping the tastes of their buyers in mind . 
'' The sari is no longer just a part of a trousseau collection , '' says proprietor Sanjeev Manglani . 
But there is still huge opposition from vested interests ranging from cabinet ministers and senior political figures to ordinary workers and newspaper editors . 
So , when Paradeep Phosphates was privatised recently , Oriya journalists bemoaned the loss of what they claimed was a fine , profitable company . 
Should we waste any more money on it ? 
Do you know why ? 
Quite simply we can not afford this any more . 
Ali had claimed that Bhalla paid him by cheque in return for a regular supply of cocaine between June and August 2001 . 
The other user who issued cheques , businessman Robert Suri , has fled the country . 
Suri , who holds a British passport , is now a po with lookout circulars against his name at all major airports . 
In police custody , Bhalla admitted to having paid for the cocaine at least a dozen times . 
Bhalla 's arrest is significant . 
He paid Ali for the coke and we have proof , and this is important evidence in the case . '' 
His disclosures , supported by those of Sona , Wadera , and Ali , might prompt the questioning of some celebrities . 
When is the best time to buy and sell in the stock market ? 
The simple rule is buy when the market is down and sell when it is up . 
The pe is the ratio of the stock price of a company to its earnings per share . 
Some fund managers feel that it may not be easy to restructure the portfolio . 
However , Pioneer 's new offering has impressed even its rivals . 
True , the PE Ratio Fund will book profits while the going is good without waiting for stupendous gains . 
Investors can decide whether this is a virtue or a drawback . 
I keep the risk at a reasonable level , avoiding undue exposure in volatile instruments . 
Viswanathan Anand Chess Grandmaster 
That translates into a mere 2.1 per cent rise in the average income of Indians . 
Most of Indian industry is in deep recession with sales and profits falling between April and December 2001 . 
Worse is the continued investment faminepublic or private , domestic or foreign . 
That puts paid to any chances of an early economic upsurge . 
To cap it all , not many are ready to believe Sinhas words any more . 
And will that meal be nutritious enough to take the economy out of the onset of an eclipse of recession ? 
A tough poser to rattle any accomplished brain . 
The physical resemblance of Joshi , an astrologer , to Modi is uncanny . 
No wonder then that his lookalike 's elevation to the chief minister 's post is a good omen for Joshi . 
It 's time Modi met Joshi . 
The filmstar played difficult , but eventually gave in to Rajnath 's persuasions . 
The chief minister spent the journey trying to rope in the star campaigner . 
But both the Samajwadi Party and the Congress have beaten him to it . 
He was earlier chairman of lic . 
European standards specify a minimum of 90 per cent of the output claimed by the label . 
For this you need new ideas and a new kind of leader . 
If N . 
Both states still have miles to go , but there are signs that someone is trying to make a difference . 
Surely , stories of what was going on must have reached Prime Minister A . 
The government needs to concentrate on things like healthcare , schools , sanitation and infrastructure . 
The Central government needed a total overhaul when Vajpayee became prime-minister prime minister but he chose to do nothing . 
Well , despite the gloomy news from the assembly elections , there is no threat to the Vajpayee Government . 
So the prime-minister prime minister still has two years to show us what he can do . 
It is up to Sinha to take his pick at election time . 
'' He has been trying to fool me and you for two years , '' Thackeray snapped . 
Look at the Centre 's performance . '' 
Sharp reprimand indeed . 
Something is brewing in the Sena kitchen . 
At least the joint parliamentary committee on women 's empowerment isn ` t . 
I have done whatever I wanted to . 
Now it is up to the business sentiment to respond ... 
They have been affected by the Godhra violence . 
That is what I have demonstrated in this year 's budget . 
It is a very significant amount , and has softened the blow of revenue-shortage revenue-shortage revenue shortage . 
But the revenue shortfall is largely on account of the income tax concessions that I had given last year in the budget . 
It is now with the standing committee of Parliament . 
The budget is the budget of the government , not the budget of the finance minister alone . 
I have clearly spelt out the role of the budget . 
That 's one way to provide incentives to states to reform . 
The state that will reform faster will get more funds . 
Because everything should be so set that people do not expect ups and downs in the budget . 
A Dilli ki kudi uses her cell phone to cue her pitch before launching into a song . 
It is an internal matter of the community , panel members privately told Alva . 
Communal amity was , of course , not the only factor . 
Why can ` t she be more humble like Jaya Prada , they ask . 
There is another village belle already secretly in love with the eligible bachelor . 
Okay , so the hero does not lead a cricket team , but what else is different ? 
The setting for one , and then the dialect . 
The release of More Chaiyan Bhuinyan was timed to coincide with the birth of Chhattisgarh last year . 
A Congress committee , headed by Pranab Mukherjee and comprising Arjun Singh , Manmohan Singh , K . 
There was unanimity in the panel . 
Sonia even told Mohan how her party was '' all for it '' . 
At the January 8 meeting , the Congress kept its word . 
Among the 12 members who disapproved of the draft report that disallowed FDI was Congress member Pawan Bansal . 
In the past year , eight movies have been released , 10 more are on the floor . 
But cynicism misses the wood , the trees and the entire cruel beauty of golf . 
Tiger Woods was beaten in the first round by an Australian called Peter O ` Malley . 
In golf , depth of field is not a concept from photography , it is daily reality . 
Unlike other sports , in golf men do not face off across a net , a ring or a field . 
But when the Muslims conquered the land we all became poor . 
The people we served could no longer support us . 
Things became worse when the British came . 
There was law , but the population increased . 
There were far too many of us in the temple community . 
This was what my grandfather told me . 
All the complicated rules of the community held , but there was actually very little to eat . 
People became thin and weak and fell ill easily . 
What a fate for our priestly community ! 
It really is all in the mind . 
Singh believes making the jump from Asia to Europe is bigger than Europe to the US . 
That 's the message I 've wanted to get through to guys I played with in India . 
If Jeev can do it , why not us ? '' 
But not for long . 
The commercially viable elasmobranchii subclass of sharks and ray fish was downsized to include just nine kinds . 
Environmentalists are now crying hoarse at the Centre 's appeasement policy . 
Especially in the face of studies that showed a sharp fall in the country 's shark population . 
And ironically , the Indian shark export industry itself . 
At the hub of this fishy fracas is the elasmobranchs , whose hunting was prohibited by the July 2001 blanket ban . 
That lesson has not been lost . 
Someone needs to spend bigger sums to make movies technically on a par with Bollywood . 
The films have to find audiences outside the state too , perhaps in Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring areas like Nagpur . 
Only if the current enthusiasm is sustained can Chhattisgarhi films hope to carve a niche like the one enjoyed by Marathi cinema . 
But the biggest international release of of Warner Bros will reach India only next summer . 
No problem , you nod in submission . 
So is spirituality triumphing where politics has failed ? 
'' The time has come for all brothers and sisters to come together for the resolution of Ayodhya . 
Ram and Lakshman , even though they had different mothers , lived as brothers . 
Just like them , all are brothers , the sons of Bharat Mata . 
Sugreev and Bali , despite being sons of the same mother , fell out . 
That should not happen again . '' 
'' I think so . 
The media too should act to complete the work . '' 
But all those talk about the secular versus the religious ... 
'' When there is no religion , there can ` t be any secularism . 
That is why the very word secularism is wrong . 
Only religion can save the world . '' 
And what was it that brought you to this disputed politics of Ayodhya ? 
For Jayendra Saraswati , the spiritual has never been static . 
It is dramatic and very this worldly . 
His social activism is often in conflict with the lofty aloofness of the orthodox Brahmin . 
The script has Kapoor , who comes to Delhi to implement the attack , falling in love . 
But the story is the least of Jay 's concerns now . 
'' They won ` t allow me to shoot inside Parliament , '' he rues . 
No way . 
Last heard , Jay was scouting for a building that looked anything like the real thing . 
Esha Deol 's disastrous debut must have stirred Hema Malini . 
Must be why she 's now directing Esha herself . 
The first was for Dil Aashna Hai starring Shah Rukh Khan and the late Divya Bharati . 
The film incidentally dwelt on a girl left to fend for herself by an irresponsible mother . 
The script of her unnamed film is still being written , but she says , '' Esha 's already so scared . '' 
Tanuja Chandra has cast her in her next film Sur opposite Lucky Ali . 
Chandra took her on board for her '' prettiness and strength of character '' . 
Seems like the crash course really helped . 
We are told that those who instigated the violence in Godhra were members of the Congress . 
If this is so , it would have helped contain public anger if these details were made known instantly . 
Instead , we had various ministers in the Vajpayee Government hinting darkly at an ISI plot without providing an iota of evidence . 
Why should we believe them now when they tell us that it was not the ISI but the Congress ? 
It might go some way in easing the shame of Gujarat . 
February 28 was a day of collective mourning for the Indian middle classes . 
As if that was not enough , the surcharge on income tax was raised from 2 per cent to 5 per cent . 
The angst is unabated . 
Others can ` t fathom what Sinha is up to . 
The best investment option for her would have been Reserve Bank of India Relief Bonds . 
Lakhotia now has to suggest less lucrative or less safe options to her . 
'' The Government has not thought much about the older lot who do not have any social security in India , '' he says . 
That has left people like Rama Vaidyanathan , a professional classical dancer , in a lurch . 
'' I feel trapped . 
If I had known the rebates were going , I would have invested elsewhere , '' she laments . 
Worse , investors are not sure if the remaining tax incentives will be withdrawn or diluted in future . 
In this atmosphere , civilised discourse is as likely to be uncomfortable with Acharya Giriraj Kishore as with Osama bin Laden . 
They may or may not want a temple or a mosque in Ayodhya but they certainly don ` t want a return to Golgotha . 
Due to a variety of reasons , the Ram Janmabhoomi movement became a mass phenomenon a decade ago . 
The mood has passed . 
It is no longer the number one issue on people 's minds . 
Rather , it is the number one cause of fear . 
Three men armed with youth and bamboo sticks advance menacingly towards a man shrunk with age . 
But just as the sticks come raining down , a radical change comes over the puny old man . 
A harmonious blend of deft moves , silambam is a defense skill now , a dance the next . 
'' I must have trained more than a thousand youth , '' says Selvam . 
The steps are not too difficult '' but some youngsters are so impatient that they want to rush ahead without knowing the basics . 
Perseverance is a requisite if you want to learn silambam '' , says Selvam as he readies for another round of demonstration . 
This time , the combat is more furious . 
'' Delayed reaction such as this can cost you your life . 
Now you know why you should practise regularly , '' he admonishes the student . 
Born in Puliyankulam village of Sivaganga district , Selvam started learning silambam at 18 . 
He completed the basic training the same year under Periyaambillai , a renowned trainer in Virudhunagar district . 
After serving under several established landlords , Selvam took up a job in Thanjavur to train the youth in the region . 
He moved to Madurai only about five years ago where he now owns a petty shop . 
But the silambam expert refuses to dispense with his skill for propagating needless aggression . 
Film Club had done a similar job with Rudyard Kipling 's Jungle Book . 
The network is also working on regional versions for later this year . 
The Powerpuff Girls will now squeal in Telugu . 
It is not clear how many companies have violated their agreements . 
That has a direct bearing on the issue of corporate governance . 
Foreign companies have often led the way for Indian companies in adopting global corporate governance practices . 
This peer pressure may cease after the companies get off the stock markets . 
Why have the courts taken so long to decide ? 
Why has a BJP prime-minister prime minister found a solution so intractable ? 
Personally , let me repeat , I can not understand why we need another temple in a country which already has too many . 
In the coming weeks , Praveen Togadia is likely to become even more of a TV personality than he is . 
In his three years as its international general secretary , the VHP has grown from 14 , 000 to 38 COMMA000 units nationwide . 
The real goal , he says , is to replicate the '' Gujarat model '' across the country . 
Born into a family of Patel farmers from Saurashtra , Togadia spent his school years living alone in an Ahmedabad chawl . 
Academically brilliant , Togadia was a favorite of his school principal . 
Where mythology is a computer game and the language of power is not Sanskrit but English . 
Where scriptures of the Vedic age are less influential than the country report in The Economist . 
Where for a whole new generation the technology of enlightenment is not religion but information . 
An inferno of a train in which death has a religious identity . 
A murderous riot on the street where victimhood has a religious identity . 
It is a dream , and dreams demand permanent deactivation of conscience . 
As it was in the Balkans . 
That bloody progression from Ayatollah Khomeini to Osama bin Laden . 
There is no escape from the politics of faith . 
There is no escape from the mad mahant , who is very much a man of the zeitgeist . 
Equally grave is the altering demographic profile of the state . 
Mohammed Amin Seth , a social worker from Modasa , explains , '' The game plan of the Hindutva brigade is clear . 
The state Government claims it is aware of the problem . 
'' We are taking steps to create confidence in the minority community , '' assures Chief Minister Narendra Modi . 
But few are willing to believe him , given the police 's record during the initial phase of rioting . 
For compounding the Muslims ' problems is the campaign calling for an economic boycott of the community . 
In the present phase of the Ayodhya movement , the eight worst cities listed above will have to be watched . 
In Gujarat , after Ahmedabad and Vadodara , Godhra has traditionally been the third worst . 
Surat runs the risk of becoming a new casualty . 
The tearing down of the Babri mosque constituted the spark last time and the sprawling shantytowns were the sites of nearly 200 deaths . 
Surat slums would yet again need careful watching . 
One hopes the Ayodhya agitation does not scale the ferocious heights of 10 years ago . 
The banks are only too willing to lend . 
While women in Orissa have unarguably benefited from the program , there have been gains for local politicians too . 
It was just as well for the chief minister that his assembly constituency was in Ganjam district . 
'' The issue is not about reaping political dividends , '' insists Dharmendra Pradhan , a BJP MLA . 
'' It is about improving lives and empowering women . '' 
Whatever the political motivation behind the scheme , the statewide campaign is bringing about unprecedented synergy among the women . 
For years , the women of Panijia were little more than voiceless entities . 
Although illiterate , Deo and other sangh members were clear that their children should be educated . 
So they went about planning a school in the village . 
While they provided the money for the structure , their men agreed to put it up free of cost . 
With their rope units and brick kilns , these women are building the road to hope in Orissa . 
He is now in the unenviable position of having to explain how they have been safeguarded in Afghanistan . 
'' This is the real danger for Pakistan , '' says Salahuddin . 
This will have an impact on Pakistan 's Kashmir policy . 
Privately some officials may also hope that rifts will appear among the Alliance 's component parties in the bid for political power . 
Overnight the bank 's network of 75 ATMs expanded to over 2COMMA000 . 
Of course , there are other ways to keep the customer away from the counters . 
Net banking , for example . 
Fixed deposits can be made with the click of the mouse and loans are just a few keystrokes away . 
Some banks allow you to pay your phone and electricity bills through the Net . 
But there is a problem . 
So banks have invested millions of rupees in setting up call centres that allow customers to speak to someone in case of a problem . 
The change is as drastic culturally as it is commercially . 
Does all this mean that banks will now be manned by just a few senior officials and supercomputers ? 
I didn ` t like hearing the stories my grandfather told of that time , in the 1890s . 
Clinical trials still need to be carried out . 
So don ` t junk the oxygen cylinders yet . 
The bacterium was developed into a biological weapon by American scientists . 
Banks will need to tie up all these loose ends if they want to keep the customer satisfied . 
Many more are set to join their ranks . 
After all , only four days earlier he had successfully tackled the Vishwa Hindu Parishad 's shiladaan program in Ayodhya . 
But barely had Vajpayee settled down , when he faced a verbal assault . 
But since none was forthcoming it was assumed that this was the official RSS word on its ties with the party that it nurtured . 
If they want me to go back to the Sangh , I will go . '' 
The Vajpayee Government was smug enough to believe that the VHP was in no position carry out any threat . 
Sources say Union ministers campaigning in Delhi have been quietly instructed to refer to the temple construction in their speeches . 
The BJP brass would rather that the RSS stick to its cultural agenda and refrain from interfering in economic policies or administrative issues . 
For the moment , one crisis appears to have blown over . 
So it is to Vajpayee 's credit that he has resisted them . 
In the process , though , it is doing us the unintended favor of exposing the ugliness of Hindutva 's underbelly . 
As long as the cause had as its main proponent someone like Union Home Minister L . 
So when issues like these were in the forefront people were prepared to listen . 
But who is going to listen to those who justify Gujarat 's violence on the grounds that it was '' natural and spontaneous '' ? 
It is now generally accepted that the BJP is unlikely to win any more elections . 
The priest can only recommend someone , and it is up to the guru to accept him or her . 
What is left unsaid it that all these seem to be a battle for the disciples ' money rather than their souls . 
Till recently , Das held a position in the ISKCON Bureau too . 
Armed with a court order and with policemen in tow , he is stepping into his former fief regularly . 
Tension is also brewing at Vrindavan , where Prabhupada , as his disciples remember , '' left this planet '' in 1977 . 
The rebellion and its protagonists , he says , represents a '' miserable minority '' . 
What it needs is a spiritual foam to douse the fire of protest in its ranks . 
But the passion for power and money perhaps goes beyond these carnal roadblocks . 
That is a spirited rather than a spiritual rhetoric . 
As culture minister , he was accused of packing undeserving favorites into institutions like the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts . 
His penchant for unsigned files is legendary . 
This had Left MPs complaining to the Prime Minister 's Office , no less . 
An investigation has been ordered into what must rank as one of the most audacious conveyance bills in Indian history . 
Mr Kumar 's office on wheels may just come to a grinding halt . 
It was their karma . 
While some in the village cultivated land , the rest were artisans following their hereditary occupations depending on the castes they belonged to . 
These artisans were not paid in cash , but received a traditionally fixed share of the produce after harvest . 
They were to be found in other countries at a similar historical stage of industrial development . 
The swadeshi spirit surfaced rather late in the day . 
During the years following the First World War , many new modern industries came into existence . 
But the problem of traditional industries still continues today . 
They have now to compete with their Indian rivals in an organised sector . 
The decline of the traditional industry and the rise of the modern industry in India were neither simultaneous nor causally connected . 
It is said that the Company , starting in 1780 , spent large sums of money only to incur huge losses . 
Exports on private account were encouraged , though the Company had a monopoly of trade . 
Indigo plantations developed under European control but not , like tea and coffee , under their management . 
Thus there were no European ' planters ' of indigo as such . 
They merely advanced money to the growers and bound them for delivery of the produce at an agreed price . 
In some cases , land owned by the planters was leased to the cultivators for growing indigo . 
In course of time , however , there were many variations from this general arrangement . 
The planters made fortunes while the cultivators were reeling under the weight of inflation . 
In other areas , the cultivators derived varying profits . 
But , generally , the condition of the peasant deteriorated everywhere . 
It resulted in the loss of Russian market and shortage of tonnage . 
In the meanwhile , efforts were initiated to facilitate research for improvement in the quality of tea . 
Initially tea cultivation was limited to high altitude areas as it was thought that plains were not suitable for the purpose . 
Even when the industry fell on evil days , and plantations were abandoned , there was hardly any human suffering . 
Only a few big plantations used mechanical power for removing the pulp from the coffee beny . 
Demand for labor on coffee plantations was not steady round the year as it was in tea gardens . 
Temporary hands were drawn from among the agriculturists of the neighborhood . 
India had imported , in the past , considerable quantitites of rubber across its land frontier . 
But after the turn of the century , indigenous production expanded , making exports possible . 
The size of the estates varied considerably , but the average area and the number of persons employed per estate was small . 
Mechanical power was not common even in the bigger plantations . 
Thus this infant industry was struggling to find its feet when the First World War broke out . 
It was a decade of pioneering work , demanding the best of Indian engineers , technicians and common workers . 
The Western Ghats were conquered in the early sixties , and the hinterland was opened up for Bombay . 
The story of the conquest of the Ghats is in a way the story of the Indian railways . 
Five per cent was a good return in the circumstances and did not induce economy or efficiency . 
There was also no chance of competition from unguaranteed companies as long as the guarantee was forthcoming . 
While recurring famines required better and quicker transport facilities , the government could not sustain even the existing tempo of construction . 
Between 1870 and 1880 , about 2COMMA000 miles of railways were added at an additional cost of Rs 25 crores . 
The government of India protested in vain . 
The Secretary of State continued to favor construction by companies even by guarantee . 
Productive lines were leased to the companies and unproductive ones retained by the government . 
If some railways were owned and administered by the government , some others were owned by them , but worked by guarantee companies . 
Between 1900 and 1914COMMA10COMMA000 miles were added mainly in the form of link lines of branch and feeder lines . 
Enquiries were constituted with a view to toning up the administration . 
Mileage owned by state and worked by companies 18COMMA680 
Exchange losses were quite heavy during the nineties . 
The railway contracts were made when the exchange was at Is 10d . 
At this parity , the return on sterling obligations worked out to 5.43 per cent . 
Most of this capital came from overseas investors . 
The war created a milieu in which the railway program , policy and finance acquired a new perspective . 
In Britain and Europe , coal , steam and the consequent mechanical applications constituted the prime movers of the industrial revolution . 
India was not endowed with plentiful timber , which could have been a source of industrial power . 
In point of time , coal and railway development preceded industrialisation in Europe , and again , railway construction followed coal mining . 
In India , however , this sequence was somewhat reversed . 
Two of the premier Indian industries , viz . 
What is true of coal is also true of iron and steel , which came much later in the chain of industries . 
It appeared as though Indian coal had a lucrative market abroad . 
But , after 1908 , exports dropped and the imports increased , though the latter were still lower than exports . 
There was a similar movement in the proportion of the coal consumption by railways as against the total coal output in the country . 
Indian coal was the cheapest available but , considering its quality this constituted no great advantage . 
The seams were thick and the mines shallow . 
It was about 280 tons in other countries of the British empire . 
The degree of occupational risk , leading to death or injuries , was comparatively less in India . 
But the methods of mining were not quite advanced . 
The universally used system of ' board and pillar ' was wasteful . 
Coal was yet another industry founded , owned and controlled by Europeans . 
The process of ' Indianisation ' was slow . 
The organization and management of the companies came under criticism on various counts . 
Five years ago , the Indian mission in Kabul was evacuated barely 12 hours before the Taliban entered the city . 
The liaison officer 's name was cleared hours before the team landed at Bagram airbase near Kabul . 
This had a double disadvantage for the country . 
The First Cotton Mills Historically , the cotton spinning and weaving industry , originating in India , migrated to other parts of the world . 
There was no further progress for the next thirty or more years . 
But it went into production only after 1854 . 
A dozen more mills were set up during the next ten years . 
The policy of the government during the years following the crisis was one of protection and encouragement . 
As we shall see in later paragraphs , the policy pursued by the government of India presented a sad contrast . 
In 1880 , Japan had no more than 13COMMA000 spindles compared with India 's more than 1.5 million . 
The working conditions were not as good as those obtaining in the Indian industry . 
The excise duty on the handloom cloth was abolished , and so also the import duty and excise on yarn . 
However , it was precisely in these overlapping categories that the excise levy sought to wrest an advantage from the Indian mills . 
The next three decades were years of steady progress . 
The number of looms and spindles increased much faster , as can be seen from the following Table . 
This was phenomenal growth . 
This can be seen from the relatively more rapid growth of spindles and looms . 
The efficiency of Indian labor had increased , making it possible for the industry to diversify its output . 
With a growing world demand for packing materials , the golden fiber industry was indeed bidding fare to becoming a gold mine for India . 
But there is something more to the story . 
Initially , the exports of jute manufactures were modest as compared with those of raw jute . 
On an average , about half the local jute produce was exported , but in later years the ratio was declining . 
Dundee was the major customer of Indian jute , followed by Germany , France and America . 
The direction of trade in manufactures , however , was different . 
The most common need felt periodically was restriction of output in keeping with the fluctuating demand . 
The need was felt , therefore , to organise a formal , representative organization to facilitate concerted action . 
The result was the formation of the Indian Jute Mills Association in 1884 . 
Conditions however soon improved , and another spell of prosperity followed . 
Ten years later , the figure was Rs 4.35 crores plus 17 ' .41 lakhs . 
We have seen that the numerous efforts made to start an iron industry were not successful . 
Efforts were also made to organise leather and glass industries on factory lines . 
The petroleum industry was one of them . 
This industry was , however , confined only to Burma , where it was a fairly old industry . 
One of the important mineral industries that emerged after 1900 , was manganese mining . 
India soon emerged as one of the leading managanese exporters . 
In the absence of any local steel industry , all the output was exported . 
This industry employed some 20COMMA000 workers . 
The production of other minerals like zinc , tin , copper , etc . 
Finally , a brief reference may be made to textile industries other than cotton and jute , and to paper and sugar industries . 
In 1895 there were only six woollen mills employing 3COMMA000 hands . 
Sugar refining by the traditional method of progressive refinement of gur was a thriving occupation , particularly in UP and Bengal . 
Besides , there were numerous small refineries . 
But there were solitary examples like the Serampore Paper Mill , which had a much longer history . 
It was reported that in 1895 there were eight mills employing 3COMMA500 persons . 
There was no increase in this number for years . 
This indicated a substantial rise in the capital invested over the previous years . 
However , Indian mills were facing tough competition from cheap and superior imported paper , and the prospects for them were not particularly bright . 
What was the dimension and quality of industrialisation of over half a century in the country ? 
What prospects did it open up for future growth ? 
Writing in 1893 , Ranade observed that by about 1875 the Indian economic situation had touched its nadir . 
Over three million people were employed in hand spinning and , particularly , in weaving . 
In fact , the pressure on agriculture progressively increased after 1890 . 
So , counting them among the industrially employed may be statistically justified but would hardly brighten up the employment scene . 
The pace of urbanisation was slowin fact , stagnant . 
It fell slightly to 9.42 in 1911 . 
But it can not be said that even this small urban population came under the spell of modern industry . 
As it happened , the regional development of industry was most uneven and unbalanced . 
The rest were consumer industries . 
After Ranade wrote , progress was further accelerated , and that would have heartened him . 
The industrial pattern did not change in the next twenty years . 
A new awareness came to or was forced upon the government by the situation created by the war . 
The Commission submitted its report in 1918 , and recommended in strong terms the urgent need for government initiative and intervention in industrial affairs . 
They were in a hurry to execute sanctioned schemes . 
After 1931 , gross earnings fell , while expenditure remained steady , thus raising the operating ration . 
There were no contributions from the railways to the general revenues between 1931 and 1937 . 
On the other hand , the imports of South African coal averaged around a million tons a year . 
The Indian coal industry had a small export market and it could have been preserved and enlarged . 
In sharp contrast was the policy of the South African government , which extended substantial help to its industry in capturing foreign markets . 
The railway rates policy was also not oriented to increasing competitiveness of local coal . 
A grading board was set up the same year . 
All these steps had a salutary effect on exports , which showed an improvement after 1925 . 
The price may be immaterial where power consumption is a small fraction of manufacturing expenses . 
The Munitions Board calculated that under optimum conditions , it should be possible to make power available at 2 pice per unit . 
This was in sharp contrast to the government 's attitude to early railway construction . 
Though left to private initiative , government direction and keen interest in the railway development was very pronounced . 
The number of looms , however , increased by 25 per centan indication of further contraction in export trade in yarn . 
Secondly , food prices rose steeply in 1917 , adding to the economic distress of the working classes . 
Pressures for wage rise were mounting , resulting in labor trouble . 
The next few years marked a period of depression . 
The demand for protection was the most pressing from the Bombay mills , who thought that the competition from Japan was the most serious . 
The Tariff Board , therefore , went systematically into the need for protection and reported on it in 1927 . 
The Board estimated that about 40 per cent of Japanese imports competed directly with the staple products of Indian mills . 
This was in the case of goods of counts below 30s , comprising long cloth and shirtings and drills and jeans . 
The imports of these categories from the UK were negligible . 
His report endorsed the view that there was an ' unfair ' competition from Japan . 
Japan and China , on the other hand , gained impressively and supplied 56 per cent of yarn imports . 
The internal demand was dull and the mills had to carry sizeable stocks . 
Coimbatore , Kanpur , Calcutta , Sholapur , etc . 
They could not agree to any concerted action to or prices . 
However , the industry did fairly well through the twenties , till it fell a victim to the great depression . 
The demand for jute goods was maintained and an increasing proportion of raw jute output was converted into finished goods . 
They had a capital investment of Rs 17.50 crores . 
There was near doubling of jute consumption by the mills between 1910 and 1920 . 
The other centres did not aggregate even a thousand looms and 20COMMA000 spindles and employed a mere 6COMMA000 hands . 
The Indian industry compared favourably with its counterparts abroad which were mainly fed by Indian raw material . 
There were also a few mills in Canada , Brazil and Japan . 
Jute was among the worst victims of the depression . 
Murthy was union minister of state for finance in the P . 
To be a women under the brutal Taliban rule was to be condemned to a life worse then hell . 
Will they burn their burqas in flaming heaps , or storm government buildings to demand jobs and better healthcare ? 
Capital costs were particularly high . 
The next decade saw a great improvement in operational efficiency ; works costs steadily fell . 
But the prices were low and the profits small . 
The preference dividends also fell into arrears and were paid only when conditions improved . 
Even depreciation could not be adequately provided for . 
The performance of the duplex plant had not come up to expectations . 
The latter became a highly speculative script and remained so till they were abolished years later in the fifties . 
Some Rs 7 crores were raised through loans . 
That is how the foundation of the industrial complex at Jamshedpur was laid . 
Apart from the steel plant , the Tinplate Company of India and half a dozen smaller enterprises constituted the complex . 
By taking the initiative in the organization of a trade union in 1920 , the management paved the way for amicable labor relations . 
And in 1937 a new phase in labor relations was inaugurated when a scheme of profit sharing was introduced . 
Attention paid to housing , medical facilities , education , etc . 
Right from the beginning , the plant was conceived as a fully integrated one . 
Even at this level , their cost of production was less than half the cost in America or England . 
We have already seen that these factors were present in this country to sustain a growing iron and steel industry . 
This time the cessation of imports was almost total , and this country was cut off from Europe . 
The entry of Japan in the hostilities brought the war to India 's doorstep . 
The ordnance factories , strengthened with the assistance of trade and railway workshops , started producing 700 varieties of munitions . 
Overall industrial production increased more consistently and , on all evidence , faster during the war years than it had done before . 
India was a loser in terms of markets as well as skilled labor that migrated to Pakistan . 
The strain on the equipment increased as the war progressed . 
The disruption caused by Partition brought down earnings but not the expenses . 
Diarrhoea kills because it dehydrates and the body loses vital salts . 
The body becomes weak , and in severe cases , the kidneys may fail . 
'' ORS packets should be part of a home medical emergency kit , '' advises Bhan . 
ORS can also benefit the elderly who are often dehydrated because they are slow to recognise thirst . 
'' I feel as though my best years were taken away from me . '' 
'' It was difficult . 
We had almost no income . 
Abdu wanted to start a family , and I was still hoping I would have a career someday , '' she says . 
Perhaps in the spring if enough former students return , she is told . 
Or earlier , if the funds can be found to repair all the broken windows and the heating system . 
But , inshallah , we will soon catch up with them . '' 
But this is India folks and for the average Indian , the police already has draconian powers . 
Nobody knows . 
This is not to say that we should happily support a law that gives the police even more power . 
Our problem is that we emulate only the easy stuff . 
These things would take too long and require too much work . 
So , why not place a ban on smoking ? 
Why , for instance , does the chief justice not consider fining judges and lawyers who allow cases to drag on indefinitely ? 
Would this not be more important than a ban on smoking in public places ? 
The Congress , responsible in its time for a much uglier law called TADA , is hugely exercised over POTO . 
What about just one little walkout from the Lok Sabha over this issue ? 
With the rot going so deep can we seriously believe POTO will make a difference ? 
By V . 
Yashwant Sinha is on top of the world . 
Fast forward to December 2001 . 
Rollbacks are back in vogue . 
IMF , NCAER , CMIE and CII trim their growth projections . 
Even the RBI declares that GDP growth could be as low as 5 per cent . 
The corporate world feels it will be closer to 4.5 per cent . 
India Today looks at the myths and the realities of economic growth . 
This means an accretion of less than 0.4 per cent . 
The question then is whether this is enough to trigger a revival . 
Very simply , the higher volumes have been achieved on the back of price cuts and squeezed margins . 
The biggest in the business are struggling to maintain both topline and bottom line growth . 
Besides , only CTV sales are up . 
Refrigerator sales are down by 2 per cent and washing machines sales by 5 per cent . 
The solution is simple . 
Medicines often have these molecules , and the wrong form can be harmful . 
That is why it is vital to be able to produce each chiral form separately . 
This promises faster computer circuits and more accurate guidance systems for aircraft . 
Sure , in the long run the projects will boost cement and steel sales . 
But is that enough to act as a catalyst ? 
The roads project will require an estimated 2.7 million tonnes of cement , or 2.4 per cent of the installed capacity . 
Ditto with steel . 
In the conventional sense though this is not true . 
Is this money going towards productive expenditure ? 
This takes the real interest rate in the US , at price inflation of 2.6 per cent , into the negative range . 
In comparison , the RBI has slashed the bank rate only once in the current fiscal to bring it down to 6.5 per cent . 
In the previous year imports were down by 0.16 per cent with 36 of the 65 categories registering negative . 
Even in 714 items where quantitative restrictions have been lifted , import growth was just Rs 247 crore . 
The tastefully done up stage under a waxing moon added to the festive atmosphere . 
But South Block evidently underestimated the power of the '' babu '' . 
The situation has assumed alarming proportions this financial year . 
With bureaucrats afraid to stick their necks out , the capital funds may lapse this fiscal year if the acquisition process is not expedited . 
This year , having utilised even lesser , it runs the risk of surrendering an even bigger amount . 
Yet another reason cited by the ministry officials for the deferment in acquisitions is the inordinate delay in setting up the defense procurement board . 
At present , the Defence Ministry and service headquarters have to go through 32 formalities before a decision on acquisition is taken . 
Now it can generate up to 5 KW of electricity , more than enough for the entire village . 
A chance meeting with its chairman Anil Joshi three years ago changed Gopal 's life . 
These changes doubled the watermill 's grinding capacity . 
If the Government is more interested in defending its reputation than the country 's borders then what use is it to you or me ? 
Not just in the matter of Mike Denness . 
Such concern is both touching and reassuring . 
But as Ernest Hemingway had once cautioned , '' Never confuse motion with action . '' 
In nine seasons , India A has not toured Australia , South Africa or England even once . 
It means when selectors look for openers or wicketkeepers they have no yardstick to judge a player 's abilities . 
Case closed . 
First , Kapil Dev 's bitterness evaporated into an offer to be fast bowling coach . 
Now Sarthi plans to hold training sessions to help these artisans keep up with the times . 
Despite their poverty , these children know a life their parents did not . 
Then , it 's back to the slums of Kathputli Colony . 
The paradox does not escape them . 
They defecate , mostly , beside the railway tracks . 
With Internet facilities , the center would enable children and teachers to benefit from the vast repository of online information . 
For the moment though , the villagers of Budikote , as R . 
It is this sense of pride , besides participation , that UNESCO believes will set the tone for a better Budikote . 
A study on bird behavior reported in Animal Cognition says that pigeons can tell Van Goghs from Chagalls . 
But if you feel enticed by those attractive '' interest free offers '' , remember , you 've been warned . 
All victims must approach a doctor as a precautionary measure . 
The only hitch , as the embarrassed organisers discovered later , was the presence of at least five child couples . 
'' Our motive was to help these poor people get married and ensure that they saved money , '' says Chimmanakatti . 
The alliance suffered a drubbing at the hands of the Congress in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections last week . 
Attempts to play down the loss have begun . 
'' The Chandigarh debacle will have no impact on Punjab , '' says Badal . 
But the Chandigarh victory has buoyed up the Congress ' spirits . 
'' It 's a major morale booster , '' croons Pawan Bansal , Congress MP from Chandigarh . 
In Khubsoorat , he played the henpecked patriarch of a family . 
With his death , The Mumbai film world has lost an important link in its chain of evolution . 
Textures moved from techno fabrics to tencel , micro fibers , acetate , lycra and denim in a deconstructed avatar . 
Designers like Puja Nayyar , Monapali and Ritu Kumar experimented with fabric weaves . 
Favourite fabrics like chiffon , georgette , blends , silk , linen , khadi , dupion and matka stayed firm on the fashion ladder . 
Afghanistan is a long way for a film to travel . 
Happily , the film enraptured local audiences also . 
The film had nothing going for it . 
Still Shaun Pollock would not declare . 
Why , why , why ? 
A South African waved the argument away with quick , expressive hands , '' Ah , but don ` t you see ? 
It 's not something you just forget . '' 
Two hundred and eighty one . 
It has become the signature innings of Indian cricket and of its craftsman V . 
The claims of the pharma majors about synthetic insulin have proved to be as artificial . 
The gains from the human insulin fall far short of expectations . 
'' Claims of purity , cost effectiveness and immunity to allergy were exaggerated , '' says Dr N . 
Plus , in patients who switch from natural to human the onset of hypoglycemia is more abrupt . 
Behavioural changes also occur more frequently in patients using human insulin . 
The tiny miracles are no longer a matter of science fantasy . 
Has a canny understanding of the media , a good grasp of global power games , is pugnacious , at the same time vulnerable . 
But the double game that he has been playing now shows all signs of ending up in another war in the subcontinent . 
However , with the courts announcing that she was corruption free , another comeback to Fort St George is just a matter of time . 
During chemotherapy , the patient is frequently injected with drugs over a period stretching from several weeks to several months . 
Repeated jabbing of the arms causes pain , swelling , increases risk of infection , and sometimes makes the vein difficult to find . 
It has a chamber that can hold the drug , which is then delivered to the body at regular intervals . 
The device costs between Rs 4COMMA000 and Rs 14COMMA000 , and depending on its quality , can last from a year to a lifetime . 
It is designed not to cause any immunological reaction within the body . 
Kaul has implanted the device in more than 200 patients . 
'' With ports , one can undergo chemotherapy and still go to work regularly , and even travel , '' says Kaul . 
Last year , over 490 tonnes of the yellow metal were sold in India . 
Pure gold is '' 24 carat '' but is too soft to work on . 
So Indians prefer the 22 carat gold that has been strengthened with an alloy . 
The survey , however , found that what is sold as 22 carat was actually anything from 15 to 20 carat . 
Gold ornaments made in Jaipur showed 91 per cent purity while those from Hyderabad had 65 per cent purity . 
The implication is clear , even to the politically uninformed , that India is civilised and Pakistan barbaric . 
She is bursting with ideas that would be extremely useful to L . 
'' We 're scared , '' says section superintendent S . 
Delhi , Kolkata , and other cities witness similar scenes and apprehensions . 
The fear is of anthrax , a usually rare bacterial disease that claimed the lives of two postal workers in the US . 
In India , victims range from Union Home Minister L . 
In less sensitive times , the incidents would have amounted to a black comedy . 
Their objective , Indian officials believe , was to eliminate Peres during his tour of Delhi , Mumbai and Bangalore . 
A verification exercise is also on among all the students enrolled in Indian flying schools . 
Rafik also advises Patel to delete every message as soon as it has been read . 
Below the message concerning Hussein , Rafik warns , '' Don ` t reply to this message . 
If religion is so irrelevant in Pakistan , so is our existence as a state and our demand for Kashmir . '' 
Though the police have failed to establish a direct Pakistani connection , of late , fundamentalist Islamic groups have been active in Gujarat . 
This is in keeping with the ISI strategy of creating Islamic bases in states bordering Pakistan with pockets of sizeable Muslim population . 
In Bhuj last week , several Muslim leaders delivered provocative public speeches but the police refrained from taking any action . 
Will you change the Sena 's image ? 
I might not look as aggressive but I am very firm in my approach . 
When an opportunity is not given then some people tend to cross over as it is the easiest way out . 
And most viewers liked what they saw . 
A matriarch who had the trendiest colors in her wardrobe and on her lips . 
TRPs rose maddeningly , creating a profusion of family soaps . 
Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki quickly filled the number two slot and there came a slew of more . 
'' In the soaps , the camera doesn ` t move out of the house . 
It is confined within the four walls , symbolising the status of the woman . '' 
Instead of intelligently evaluating sons and husbands , these women tread the judgmental land of black and white . 
No gray areas , thank you . 
Even the actors who portray the old witches in new robes agree that there is a reality jam . 
While emoting , Baokar says she made a deliberate effort to establish the reasons behind Verma 's viciousness . 
'' That is true of mothers in real life too , isn ` t it ? '' 
'' In the urban educated society , there are many interesting women who are grappling with numerous changes . 
'' I am beginning to get over my possessiveness about my son , '' she says . 
Do people really love watching what they don ` t want to be ? 
It is after all the regressive behavior of these moms on TV that is creating a success formula for producers . 
'' Comparing media representations to reality is tricky as realities are subjective and complex , '' she says . 
All four opened in the US Top 10 . 
Rahul Khanna will be seen as an Indian dotcom millionaire caught between conflicting values in Deepa Mehta 's new film . 
Significantly , the speech ended with a domestic focus , with India mentioned almost in passing . 
Rather than any capitulation , it was Musharraf 's '' courage '' that was being lauded in western capitals . 
Drew international attention to Kashmir as the root cause of subcontinental tension which could spin out of control . 
The tuition is free and many receive free board and lodging . 
'' We will not put off the march at any cost , '' said Acharya Giriraj Kishore when the yatra reached Lucknow . 
Singhal asked the Hindus to take on Islamist extremism , not remain fragmented and to unite under one umbrella . 
Chief Minister Rajnath Singh does not see Ayodhya as a major issue for the BJP in this election . 
Having said that the BJP is not unmindful that the VHP support base is part of its political constituency . 
The Parishad 's unending army of sants has been frequently mollified as was done on January 21 itself . 
This caused some discomfort to ordinary citizens . 
Paramhans wanted these barriers removed before he began the march . 
The barricades were soon removed . 
The speculation was this would make the VHP 's February rallies easier . 
Precisely what does the VHP want ? 
So it wants the control of the 67 acres on the periphery of the makeshift temple . 
Out of power BJP leaders may then be more inclined to publicly back the VHP . 
Now if only it wasn ` t so tiresomely familiar . 
At his palatial bungalow in Rakhra village near Patiala , Darshan Singh Dhaliwal basks in the glory he has earned in the US . 
For him campaigning comes easy . 
He has sponsored many village boys studying in the US . 
That BT Cotton had boiled down to a clash of interests was no secret . 
Even Union Textiles Minister and MP from Surat Kashiram Rana threw his weight behind their cause . 
Farmers who have used BT Cotton swear by its virtues and are willing to prove their point even in court . 
He also warned Pakistan to prevent further intrusions . 
However , it is the presence of top Taliban leaders and cadres in Pakistan that can have serious ramifications for Afghanistan . 
This is precisely what is happening beyond the Afghan capital . 
Another battle is on in the key western province of Herat . 
Despite Iranian denials , Teheran has traditionally backed former Afghan resistance leader Ismail Khan . 
Earlier appointed as Khor Governor , Khan was shifted to Herat after a violent Pashtoon uprising . 
The US has beefed up its military presence at the Shindand air base to curb the perceived Iranian interference . 
Karzai 's visits to the US , Pakistan and Gulf countries indicate that he wants more monetary support for the country 's reconstruction . 
His immediate aim , however , is to maintain peace in Afghanistan and prepare for the Loya Jirga . 
India believes Pakistan will make it tough for Afghanistan by playing the Taliban card . 
Ansari 's game was up . 
For the UAE Government , deporting Ansari was an opportunity to demonstrate to the world that the Emirates was committed to fighting terrorism . 
The UAE action had repercussions on other countries as well . 
Designer and champion of traditional textiles Ritu Kumar terms it the garment with the widest range of options . 
After her limp suicide attempt the begum suffered the ignominy of being captured and tied to a gun carriage by her rebellious troops . 
To the end she entertained the most influential people of her time . 
The begum even maintained a band of European musicians . 
For , the presence of an increasing number of members in Parliament is beginning to appear more a chance occurrence than a foresworn duty . 
And it takes rare occasions like the December 13 attack to see an unusual surge in attendance . 
'' The people 's representatives should value the enormous amount of public money being spent on running Parliament , '' adds Fali S . 
The defaulters range from filmstars , artists and businessmen to people with police records and disenchanted or ill politicians . 
They attend Parliament once a month to ensure continuance of their membership . 
How can we keep him from contesting when he is so popular ? '' 
They just like to reply . '' 
Nariman suggests that the number of sessions an MP could skip should be reduced . 
Thats why india today brought together six experts to deliberate on the state of the economy and the challenge it poses for Budget 2002 . 
The panel comprised virtually the entire spectrum of expertiseeach economist having contributed to policy making within or outside the government . 
Jairam Ramesh , an india today columnist and adviser to past prime ministers and finance ministers , moderated the discussion . 
That the Government is on the verge of bankruptcy is beyond debate . 
But the way to solvency is no more through spending cuts , its through higher income generation . 
Thats a departure from the past years when expenditure reduction was considered the key to cleaning up the fiscal mess . 
The shift in thinking is not without reason . 
In the 1980s , the government collected 10 per cent of Indias gdp in taxes . 
That ratio fell to 9 per cent in the 1990s . 
This fall of one percentage point means an annual revenue loss of about Rs 20COMMA000 crore . 
Not according to him . 
'' In future , a lot of issues are going to revolve around economics , '' he says . 
For the moment , he runs a trendy coffee shop in Delhi with sister Sarika . 
Now that he 's joined up , will Rama hang up her boots ? 
'' I 'm not old enough to retire , '' the mother counters . 
When in America , he decided journalist Daniel Pearl was alive and well and '' victim '' of a fundamentalist conspiracy against Musharraf ! 
Hours later , Omar Saeed Sheikh , mastermind of Pearl 's abduction , was telling a Pakistani court the American was dead . 
On his part , Musharraf kept to his '' look I 'm so good '' act . 
It 's the sort of reasoning they specialise in Musharraf 's cute little madarsas . 
Though the high court granted a stay order the Government wants to ensure Dalit rights are not ignored . 
So apart from the 20COMMA000 jobs on offer this year the 5COMMA500 posts to be filled through promotions will also be reserved . 
Those objecting to reservation maintain that this will lead to a situation where the entire administration will be run by reserved quota recruits . 
The court order is awaited . 
In the backrooms of the BJP a form of introspection is under way . 
So where will the demand come from ? 
Last year I had given lots of tax breaks to the middle class , but demand still did not pick up . 
Demand must come from the rural sector , where 70 per cent of the people live . 
And that 's where I have concentrated this year . 
Now it is time for consolidation . 
The ownership changed hands with the lowering of the Union Jack . 
The conflict is old and so are the parties . 
Written submissions of all those members who were not present were not even considered or read . 
Amendments proposed in the old report were not even considered . '' 
'' Why should so much importance be given to standing committee reports ? 
The Government is not bound by our recommendations . 
It can go ahead and do whatever it wants , '' says Chatterjee . 
The FDI supporters have now written to Prime Minister A . 
Entrenched newspapers thus get the volumes as they drop prices , at a very high cost though . 
The gains from advertisement comes much later , after the price war has burnt holes in the management 's pockets . 
The political class has been squeamish in tackling such an issue because of the entrenched media 's clout . 
BJP Rajya Sabha member Balbir Punj says , '' The standing committee 's decision is a retrograde step . 
At a time when there is virtually no control on the electronic media , why should the print media be discriminated against ? '' 
This is a question that the Government will find increasingly difficult to answer in the coming months . 
Ever hear about the paan vendor who provides his customers a stain remover to erase betel juice stains from their shirts ? 
Or the airline carrier that gave a flier five new shirts because the stewardess accidentally spilled a drink on his ? 
These are not myths , just true tales about people who provide remarkable customer service in the most mundane of professions . 
The diaries are designed to cater to a customer 's business environment . 
Or how J . 
Another compilation lists people who have made India proud . 
But do they know that he so impressed Adolf Hitler in the 1936 Berlin Olympics that the Feuhrer offered him German citizenship ? 
The man behind many of the imaginatively etched stories has a prosaic explanation for why his '' mission statements '' tick . 
'' We are like a pharmaceutical company that sells vitamins to people . '' 
Finding inspiring anecdotes is not easy , but the Trisys team spares no efforts in hunting for appropriate ones . 
The two men have broken very big barriers in just venturing out on the EPGA Tour . 
He broke the shackles of being the boy who had everything . '' 
It is the way the extraordinary stand apart from the ordinary . 
Atwal wanted to be back in the throng of the tough US circuit just like Jeev who hacked out the first path . 
The senior pro is glad for the company . 
Now there 's someone to speak to in the same language , '' he says . 
There is a fractured verdict and legislators here are notorious for switching sides . 
The Congress , with 20 seats , heads the new Secular Progressive Front comprising four parties . 
After more than 150 dives and frequent snorkelling in the next four years , Kulkarni encountered a mere five sharks . 
Of these , only one was fully grown , the rest were baby sharks . 
The CMFRI though admits that the Government needs to '' manage '' marine species systematically . 
But the favor to the shark trade lobby is obvious in the selection of the nine sharks and rays included under the WPA . 
However , species such as the Grey Sharpnose and reef sharks which are hunted in a big way have been taken off the list . 
The VHP 's position had been that matters of faith could not be left to mere temporal courts . 
Even in the past week , Acharya Giriraj Kishore , VHP leader , said as much . 
On March 7 , however , Singhal repudiated that statement . 
He promised to abide by the court ruling , a dramatic shift for the VHP . 
This letter was handed over to the Shankaracharya and , in a sense , became his trump card . 
Convincing the Muslim side hasn ` t been as easy . 
Almost all of them ! 
Advani , Fernandes , Joshi ... 
So go the exclamations from those who are in the know . 
Swamiji , please wake up . 
A door opens and divinity leaps out . 
No religion advocates reaction to every action . 
But men react differently when they get angry . 
There is no religion in this . '' 
Is religion let down by politics ? 
'' It is always politics that causes anger and violence . 
Let religion become more important than politics . 
Only then will politicians see the light . '' 
You met quite a few . 
Could you make them wiser ? 
I do what I think is right . '' 
The couple are not taking calls , but sources close to Haasan say Sarika made the first move . 
After the incessant TV clips of terrorists storming Parliament , there will now be a 70 mm interpretation called Sansad . 
We have not even learned to distinguish between a communal riot and a pogrom . 
Riots are a different thing altogether and it is important that we make a distinction . 
Sinha has altered that assumption . 
Tax administration , of course , isn ` t yet efficient . 
Also , there will now be tax deduction at source . 
There is another good news that only a few want to hear right now . 
'' We will move away from our mental block of investing just to save tax , '' admits Kamesh . 
Once again religious violence is searing the land . 
Once again the economy is in the doldrums . 
Once again pessimism and hopelessness are having a field day . 
There is one profound difference between the world of a dozen years ago and today . 
Especially after September 11 2001 , the global community is less tolerant of religious bigotry and the violence it foments . 
Swinging into action , Vyas posed as a Muslim cattle trader and arrived at the Tankaria mosque . 
The notice board confirmed his worst fears . 
He immediately informed the police . 
Vyas managed to capture everything on video . 
'' Ten days might be too long , but it 's a tradition . '' 
There is another tradition that Bhattacharya is unable to break . 
His order that all employees report to work by 10 in the morning fell on deaf ears . 
So now he is advocating '' prudent time management '' , whatever that means , rather than punctuality . 
But that too is only for 194 days in a year . 
State employees get 30 days of earned leave , 14 days of casual leave and 21 notified holidays . 
Add 104 Saturdays and Sundays to the list and that amounts to half the year off . 
Next come the restricted holidays . 
Several incidents in the recent past do appear to link the madarsas with the jehad movement . 
'' The Deoband school has even supported India 's freedom movement . '' 
Vishwa Hindu Parishad International General Secretary Pravin Togadia claims this '' jehadi virus '' has resulted in the current upsurge against the Muslim community . 
Many more to be unlearnt too . 
So D ` Souza took the chop and says , '' They looked for a scapegoat and found one . 
It 's okay with me . '' 
English coach Malcolm Wood said mournfully , '' If you ever pray , pray for Indian hockey now . '' 
Drawing closer , he asked , '' But where was the hockey ? 
India was not playing what they should have been playing . '' 
Jagbir believes it is time to look deeper and further . 
'' Most of the players have not even played domestic matches . 
Do we even have a domestic league from where we can pick performers for the team ? '' 
'' Why not ? '' 
The chief minister is happy to report , '' Some employees are more secular than others . 
All of them take the restricted holidays irrespective of their religion . '' 
If that 's not enough , the ruling Left Front usually helps out with some bandhs . 
Like '' moderate Taliban '' , '' Bengal 's work culture '' is a charming oxymoron . 
Chief Minister A . 
The cause of this unprecedented alliance ? 
First Sakhare refused permission for the RSS Vijay Dashmi rally . 
So Congressmen went berserk and joined the RSS in demanding Sakhare 's head . 
Damage control was attempted by saying D ` Souza had been '' rested '' but the '' encounter '' had taken its toll . 
It 's the '' after '' that Indian hockey lives for . 
We need to know who was responsible and we need to know urgently . 
And we need to know it next week , not in the usual 10 years it takes for inquiry commissions to submit their reports . 
Understanding why Godhra happened and who was behind it is crucial to understanding the sudden resurgence of religious fanaticism in India . 
This is a pretty twisted idea of secularism but that is how it has always been , specially when reporting Ayodhya . 
We like turning a blind eye to Islamic fundamentalism without realising that it is the fuel that feeds Hindu fanaticism . 
Neither is acceptable and we need to be clear about this . 
Meanwhile , to return to that temple in Ayodhya , is there no way of settling the matter once and for all ? 
It upholds the Ayodhya acquisition of 1993 . 
Gods with funny physiology in a permanent costume drama . 
Crazy rituals and divine circus , not to speak of the snakecharmer 's roadshow and the naked sadhu 's nirvana rites . 
The India of eastern esoterica was the civilisational voyeur 's favored pornography . 
India has survived that image in prehistoric sepia . 
Where the new travellers from distant lands are not civilisation junkies but Marco Polos of the supermarket . 
But that doesn ` t explain why the burglars spared other antique idols and the silver platforms on which the idols were placed . 
Could it be that one faction pulled off the mischief to malign the other ? 
To guard the Lingaraj temple , the police has just four constables while the Archaeological Survey of India has deployed another two . 
The special cultural theft squad of the Crime Branch comprises nine police officers for the entire state . 
So perhaps the burglaries aren ` t much of a surprise . 
In the past five years , 39 antique thefts have taken place across the state , and 25 thefts reported from temples . 
'' The numbers are still not very high , '' says a police officer . 
The new India has become the oldest India , inhabited by crazy Hindus in frightening fancy dress . 
Truth , suddenly , has the shape of a trident . 
Passion plays of religion can not be explained by stereotypes alone . 
Ideology , essentially , is an imposition . 
It is an enforced idyll under which the basic instincts of humanity are supposed to die away . 
The much celebrated secular mind of Nehru was a repudiation of everything that was religious . 
The alternative was the concoction of secularism . 
Nehru laid a false foundation . 
And his legatees , from Indira Gandhi to Rajiv Gandhi to Narasimha Rao , played out the worst religious politics on that secular foundation . 
It was the secular version of divide and rule . 
But violence continued and villagers evacuated parts of Vadodara district where tribals targeted Muslims despite police action . 
Clearly , the fires are not doused and the haze of communal hatred continues to engulf the state . 
His actions have evoked strong reactions , earning him either fulsome praise or bitter wrath . 
For a state BJP that a month ago looked listless and leaderless , Modi is the new savior . 
The outcry that followed saw him backtrack the next day but he had already made his point . 
'' They were able to get back their voices , '' says Sanjeev Mishra , the current collector of Ganjam . 
Tales of the Ganjam women 's success soon traveled to the neighbouring districts . 
The women of Atotapalli in Chatrapur too organised themselves into a group and set up a brick kiln . 
As profits trickled in , they began calling the shots . 
They recall how they stopped one of their husbands from going in for a second marriage . 
They even roped in the police to teach the man a lesson . 
To make matters easier , Satpathy was now serving in the chief minister 's secretariat itself . 
Using Satpathy 's expertise , Patnaik soon kicked off Mission Shakti . 
During the 18th century , currency and monetary disorders were frequent . 
The local traders were the sufferers because the Company could impose preferential terms for itself on the Indian rulers . 
The weakness of the insulated village community forcefully showed up in the radically altered circumstances . 
This started the process of totally altering the complexion of trade of the East India Company . 
An outstanding event of the century was the rapid decline of the indigenous industry in India . 
The educated classes in India then promptly turned their back on everything Indian and took to things European . 
Some of the traditionally famous and prosperous urban centres of industry were completely crushed under the weight of the foreign competition . 
The London exhibition of 1851 , however , stimulated interest among the Europeans in the traditional artistic handicrafts of India . 
Imitating their Western masters , the richer classes in India too feigned a sudden fondness and taste for local handicrafts . 
Thus there was some kind of revival of the indigenous industry . 
The handicraft industry had fallen on evil days many years before the beginning of the factory system based on machine production . 
The factory system must be regarded as a symbol of modern industrial organization . 
But individual artisans working directly for the market was the rule . 
Business carried with it a social stigma and the businessman 's place in society was not particularly high . 
No information was forthcoming from private owners regarding the order of their investment . 
The coffee plant is said to have been introduced into India in the 16th century by a pilgrim from Arabia . 
In Bengal , some 4COMMA000 acres were under coffee in 1830 , but the results were not encouraging . 
Subhash lost on both counts . 
Sadhu , unlike what his name suggests , isn ` t one to renounce worldly pleasures . 
There has been of late around the government of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee the atmosphere of a sinking ship . 
Her contribution to the promotion of art was immense and priceless . '' 
Is Vajpayee on the verge of joining the Congress party under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi ? 
How else to explain his words of needless praise ? 
They were not subjected to the regulations applicable to industrial units . 
Thus they enjoyed considerable freedom in management and over their labor force . 
There was a positive side too . 
They opened up huge wastelands hitherto out of bounds for cultivation . 
The plantation industries were export oriented and were significant contributors of foreign earnings . 
While about 90 per cent of tea output was exported , almost all the coffee and rubber production was earmarked for export . 
The guarantee agreements with the two railway companies were signed the next year . 
And the first ' iron horse ' trotted between Bombay and Thana in 1853 . 
It was a decade of pioneering work , demanding the best of Indian engineers , technicians and common workers . 
The Western Ghats were conquered in the early sixties , and the hinterland was opened up for Bombay . 
The story of the conquest of the Ghats is in a way the story of the Indian railways . 
Five per cent was a good return in the circumstances and did not induce economy or efficiency . 
There was also no chance of competition from unguaranteed companies as long as the guarantee was forthcoming . 
The railways , however , provided a great boost to the plantations . 
Another industry that prospered and , in turn , made the railway construction possible , was coal mining . 
Thus there is no doubt that the railways played a significant role in the economic transition leading to the commercial revolution in the country . 
The progress , however , continued to be slow until the jute mills of Calcutta were started . 
After 1860 , the progress of the coal industry became rapid and prosperity was ensured . 
Upto 1870 , the Raniganj coalfields were the only ones that had been exploited . 
After that , new areas were opened up . 
On the whole , the contribution of the mines outside the Raniganj area was insignificant , and remained so for many years to follow . 
The latter contained a larger proportion of moisture and volatile hydrocarbons . 
But they had a particularly low ash content and a high calorific value . 
However , the properties varied not only between the systems but also from mine to mine , and even from seam to seam . 
Ash and moisture are the two deficiencies of coal , and they were rather high and varying in Indian coal . 
Ash content averaged between 10 and 30 per cent compared with just 3 per cent in England . 
These deficiencies underlined the difficulty of getting enough coking coal which would be the basis of the metallurgical industries . 
In 1854 , the East India Iron Company was formed to take over these works . 
And then , after 1850 , steel technology changed so radically in Europe and America that efforts based on earlier processes soon became outdated . 
It had a long and chequered career , but met with reasonable success in the end . 
The Company , formed in 1874 , put up its works at Kulti . 
It had two furnaces with a daily production capacity each of 20 tons of pig iron . 
Production was on the whole inefficient and the cost of production high . 
In the meanwhile , things continued to deteriorate till the Works were acquired by government in 1882 . 
The coke oven capacity was now 40COMMA000 tons of coke per year . 
The foundries turned out sleepers , pipes and other castings . 
Government was actively helping the Company by placing orders with it . 
The public response was overwhelming . 
Within three weeks the entire capital of Rs 2.5 crores was secured which comprised modest savings of some 8COMMA000 subscribers . 
The cynical British official who had mocked that he would eat every pound of steel made in India had now to eat his words . 
The significance of this event was not confined only to the Tatas and the steel industry . 
It instilled confidence and faith in Indian entrepreneurs and industrialists , paving the way for industrial expansion by Indians with local capital and resources . 
Three years later , in 1911 , the first iron streamed out and the first Indian steel was manufactured in 1913 . 
Thus was realised the dream of Jamshedji Tata , though he himself had passed away in 1904 . 
India was then importing on an average over five lakh tons of steel annually . 
Earlier the government had agreed to buy 20COMMA000 tons of steel rails per year for a period of ten years . 
The plant employed some 2COMMA000 persons , the supervisory staff being mostly foreigners . 
The original plant was rather an assorted assemblage of equipment from the United States , Britain , Germany and Belgium . 
That was the reason why there were '' Americans at the blast furnace , Germans , Italians and Swiss elsewhere '' . 
The Americans were in overall charge . 
Whereas the management and control of the Company were exclusively Indian , its dependence on foreign technicians exposed it to a certain weakness . 
This lent a political edge to the economic issues surrounding the cotton textile industry , which acquired on this account a deeper swadeshi hue . 
The great spurt in cotton exports virtually paralysed the Bombay mills . 
The boom brought about great speculation which was followed by a crisis . 
The seventies witnessed hectic progress . 
Expansion was particularly marked between the years 1885 and 1895 . 
Another change that gradually came over the industry was in the form of a shift in weaving in favor of finer counts . 
Here again , the factors making for this change were similar to those that contributed to the shift from spinning to weaving . 
The industry had come of age , and was rightly moving into a more stable , though less exciting , phase of its career . 
But the output of the handloom sector had also to be reckoned with . 
It is difficult to estimate this output with any degree of precision . 
The industry had an almost simultaneous beginning in both the countries . 
The progress of the industry in Japan was not as rapid as in India in the initial stage . 
While rejecting the initiative , Iran said it was all for maintaining links with Pakistan on any Afghan initiative within the UN framework . 
It is perhaps in light of this that Delhi has kept the Kabul cell directly under its control . 
Now over to mission goodwill hunting . 
In the past three years marksmen from Johri , 50 km from Delhi , have won medals in national and international shooting tournaments . 
Zakir Khan and Shweta Choudhary won medals at the Meeting of Shooting Hopes contest held at Plzen in the Czech Republic . 
Variants of this gene protect cells in the immune system called macrophages , which are the first to be attacked by anthrax . 
The added weight behind compensates for this . 
This evolutionary pressure to remain on their feet while pregnant spurred the growth of the fatty deposits . 
HEALTH DIARRHOEA Sipping Back to Life That diarrhoea is a leading child killer in India is tragic . 
What is worse is that the deaths can easily be prevented . 
A fifth of infants below five who die in India are victims of diarrhoea . 
That should not be the case , is the verdict of an international conference on diarrhoeal diseases and nutrition held in Delhi recently . 
Even as late as 1850 , the exports of handloom jute manufactures fetched over two million rupees in foreign exchange . 
However , forces had been working for some years past which before long brought about a rapid decline of the industry . 
The emergence of a powerful modern jute industry in Europe was the main cause of this decline . 
The Crimean war stopped the Russian supplies of hemp and provided a further impetus to Indian exports . 
No statistics of the area under jute for any year prior to the 1870s are available . 
In later years , cultivation was extended very rapidly . 
Indians had a negligible share in investment , but none whatsoever in control and management . 
The industry , however , produced only for export and , the world demand being unpredictable , there were vicissitudes in its fortune . 
It can not , however , be said that the workers had any share in the growing prosperity of the industry . 
The pace of exports of raw materials in the same period was less than half the rate at which corresponding imports increased . 
We have more specific and comprehensive information for later years . 
According to the industrial census of 1911 , there were over 2.1 million persons employed in various industries . 
They also passed the State Aid to Industries Acts , under which they gave direct financial assistance to industries . 
Government control of industry increased . 
Export of some goods was banned , while output of some others was earmarked for sale to the government at contracted prices . 
The supply and distribution of coal were regulated . 
Thus some industries found unexpected prosperity , with an assured market , while the risk of competition was altogether eliminated . 
This was no great concession , but at least meant correction to the old policy of procuring stores abroad as a rule . 
Rajpal divides time between his work at Municipal Corporation of Delhi dispensaries and the shooting range in Johri . 
'' I believe in lighting one candle with another . 
Now people I have trained are imparting training to others in Johri and other places , '' he says . 
Rajpal himself has trained the national shooting teams of Nepal and Mauritius . 
He also helped Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal set up a national shooting academy in Badal village in his state . 
Fear of political and administrative interference has prevented Rajpal from approaching the Government for funds . 
'' I will ask for the Government 's help only after my trainees prove their mettle , '' he says . 
SAI has not responded to his request for the adoption and upgradation of the Johri Rifle Club . 
A little incidental relief ensued when Britain went off the gold standard in 1931 . 
The damage , however , had already been done . 
While the principle of protection was being accepted and practised , efforts were under way to sabotage its effects . 
All pretensions to free trade policy were given up when , in 1931 , Britain turned protectionist under the cover of imperial preference . 
However , there were no major changes in the rates policy . 
The next year there was a permanent increase in all the maximum rates . 
Subsequently , there were certain reductions . 
On the whole , rates ruled comparatively low in India . 
Inland water transport was not important , but coastal and International shipping was significantly increasing . 
India 's foreign trade received a spurt after 1850 , and the opening of the Suez Canal gave it an unexpected boost . 
India , however , did not have adequate port facilities and its few ports had to cope with a fast increasing trade . 
A scheme costing Rs 10 crores was implemented by 1919 , considerably extending the facilities at Bombay port . 
A similar , though less ambitious scheme , was envisaged for Calcutta in 1913 , and subsequently through the war years . 
The coal industry 's progress was on the whole satisfactory and quite commensurate with the needs of industry and the railways . 
Substitutes like oil and electricity , therefore , came into vogue . 
This was also true of the whole of south India . 
At the ports , oil was competing with bunkering coal . 
Electricity was not cheaper than Bengal coal , but it was clean and reliable . 
The Burma Oil Company was established in 1886 , followed by the Assam Oil Company in 1899 . 
This opened a new vista in industrial power and added a revolutionary dimension to industrial development . 
But the first ambitious scheme for generation of power from water came from that great industrial visionary , Jamshedji Tata . 
Soon the capacity was raised to 40COMMA000 hp with a capital of Rs 3 crores . 
The supply of power started in 1915 . 
The Andhra Valley Power Company designed to supply electricity to Bombay city and island and certain suburban areas started generating in 1922 . 
The biggest of them all was the Tata Power Company , with a capital of Rs 10 crores . 
The war saved the industry from the threatened recession and brought about an unprecedented prosperity . 
The industry lost its markets on the continent . 
The tonnage available for export was considerably reduced , particularly for yarn export to China . 
But there was a vigorous revival of the internal demand . 
In the latter year , the share of the United Kingdom had come down to just 25 per cent at 9 million pounds . 
The imports of white and colored goods also increased , but they constituted a small quantity . 
However , these factors had their dampening effect only after a time lag . 
Production costs had in the meanwhile increased . 
The industry had resorted to the expedient of employing raw hands so as to meet the growing war demand . 
Thus profits were being squeezed out progressively . 
Depression in the industry led to a demand for protection . 
For this the Bombay mills were themselves to blame to some extent . 
After 1922 , they declined sharply to the low figure of 2.2 per cent . 
Naidu will apparently consider the health profile while choosing candidates for various slots both in the party and the government . 
That 's certainly an incentive for party workers to shape up . 
Besides exhorting TDP members to be fit , he has urged them to hone their organisational and managerial skills and use the latest gizmos . 
But TDP General Secretary Lal Jan Basha believes , '' All this is beneficial in having a youthful and alert party . '' 
Lack of enterprise also reflected in the absence of any deliberate effort towards diversification . 
This led to a voluntary agreement , which was valid for five years , restricting working hours . 
By now , however , the war clouds were gathering and the industry was looking forward with optimism to better days . 
Nor was there any appreciation of the versatility of the weed they were processing . 
Other countries were experimenting with jute cultivation and development of substitutes . 
It has been claimed on behalf of the Tatas that the Company more than repaid the nation for the protection it received . 
It is not easy to measure in quantitative terms the success of protection . 
Their share in the total internal availability of iron and steel goods in 1914 was less than 10 per cent . 
The Tatas ' efforts to bring down the cost of production were on the whole successful . 
To check speculative enterprise , capital issues control was instituted in May 1943 . 
No estimates of fresh investments in industry are available for the war years . 
This was in addition to Rs 125 crores of imports of machinery for replacement purposes in the existing industries . 
In the field of chemicals alone , including pharmaceuticals , capital worth Rs 60 crores was authorised to be issued . 
The effect of the war and Partition on the Indian economy can not be summarised in a few lines . 
However , the broad sweep of the consequence of these two phenomena for the industrial structure may be indicated . 
The war meant heavy strain on equipment resulting in unprecedented wear and tear . 
I think it will take time before most women feel free of fear . '' 
I wept in anger because I had been made a prisoner without having committed a crime . '' 
Said dreamt of becoming a dentist . 
'' It was as if there was a long pause in my life , '' says Said . 
In fact , quite the opposite has been happening . 
We now have a ban on smoking in public . 
Did the Supreme Court judges who imposed it think about how this ban was going to be policed ? 
Last week the NCAER forecast that the growth in the three sectors would add up to a 4.83 per cent increase in the GDP . 
Even this seems optimistic . 
That is unlikely . 
On the current trajectory , industry would contribute 0.5 per cent to the GDP pie . 
As for agriculture , despite a good monsoon , growth is expected to be under 4 per cent . 
That would mean an addition of 1 per cent to the GDP . 
But then you start discussing investment and your problems begin . 
Which foreign investor could imagine , for instance , that instead of months it takes years for a project to be passed ? 
Which foreign investor could imagine that even after all this there may still be mysterious , unexplained delays ? 
The Congress has failed to take a concrete stand on any issue so far . 
They can ` t oppose me because people will beat them up if they do . 
Nobody in my party is against Amar Singh . 
No , she 's not dressed to kill for a Hindi film . 
But that 's not why Pooja , 20 , is Channel ( V ) ' s new VJ . 
She 's trained in jazz , tango , tap , and as her publicist says , she 's '' hot '' . 
A student of Delhi 's Lady Shri Ram College , she is also a model . 
She 's also clever , no ? 
The modification cost Rs 50COMMA000 . 
It is an ingenious way of destroying a media company . 
If Indira Gandhi had understood this simple strategy she would never have needed to impose press censorship during the Emergency . 
Speaking of which , we come to another interesting aspect of what is going on . 
It is not as if they have not tried to plead their innocence with the Government . 
The story is about corruption so vile that Defence Ministry officials make money out of coffins meant for those who died for India . 
The three militants spray bullets at the security forces , killing four policemen and a gardener . 
But they are easily outgunned and three are killed between gate 8 and 9 while looking for an entry point into the building . 
Failing to do so , he hobbles towards gate 5 , from where the prime-minister prime minister is expected to come in . 
CRPF personnel shoot him dead . 
A chain , they say , is only as strong as its weakest link . 
Watch out . '' 
The words of Hawash , arrested in June 2001 for planning to blow up the American Embassy in Delhi , are coming true . 
Officials say that of the more than 2COMMA000 Al Qaida fighters in Pakistan , only 140 have been arrested . 
Indian intelligence agencies estimate that 125 hardcore Arab Al Qaida operatives are now in India . 
HuM had been tasked by the ISI to '' accomplish this noble mission '' . 
At least two NRIs are in the fray , while many others have pitched in by sponsoring candidates of their choice . 
Never before has Punjab seen such intense jockeying for party tickets by NRI lobbies . 
More than a dozen NRIs had applied for party tickets , some even offering to relinquish their foreign citizenships . 
The Jalandhar , Nawanshahar , Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts are home to 14 lakh expatriates and send 25 legislators to the Assembly . 
Incidentally , the elections have conveniently been scheduled at a time when most NRIs fly back in droves for winter holidays . 
His efforts have been in vain so far , but Bains has not returned . 
'' I will be supporting only good candidates , '' he insists . 
Small wonder that Tohra was the star speaker at Hundal 's inaugural election rally where his NRI friends made up half the audience . 
Money is , however , not the only factor for the NRIs entering politics . 
'' Their USP lies in the pockets of goodwill they enjoy , '' says state Congress chief Amarinder Singh . 
One such influential outsider is Paul Sihota . 
Sihota has pitched in with donations of Rs 7 lakh . 
This time , Sihota is focusing on supporting five Congress candidates in Jalandhar district . 
Dhaliwal has contributed Rs 5 crore to welfare projects in Patiala . 
'' A finger in the pie of Punjab politics will make the NRIs the catalysts of change , '' he says . 
On a less philanthropic plane , the NRIs ' political clout serves to further their business back home in the West . 
But for Punjab too , it may be the harbinger of NRI investments . 
That the NRIs already form a powerful lobby is obvious . 
The land laws were recently amended to help expatriates evict their tenants . 
Looking at the equally bright faces of the youngsters , it was difficult to tell what they had been through . 
Orphans all , they had lost their parents to the killer earthquake on January 26 last year . 
Some of them , like Sunita Bhatti , were barely seven then . 
The Arya Samaj had taken them under its wing and taught them how to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives . 
Hope born of despair is evident elsewhere too . 
But that 's just one part of the assessment . 
Unlike the rural pockets of Kutch , rehabilitation efforts have been rather lax in urban centres like Bhuj , Anjar , Bhachau and Rahpar . 
Justifying the delay , Chibber argues that bringing out a draft plan for a new township normally takes more than two years . 
'' The choice before us is between what is perceived as delay and a secure future . '' 
Mocking such logic , however , are the townships that have sprung up in the rural areas . 
The same is true in many other villages . 
In Morsad , all the 176 houses built by IFFCO are ready . 
And in Sugariya , villagers have already moved into the 200 houses built by an overseas corporate house . 
Of these , 20 are complete and work is on in an advanced stage in 280 others . 
Almost 70 per cent of the houses in these areas would be ready by the next monsoon . 
At Khengarpur , for instance , the locals have turned the scene around with their enterprise . 
Even compensation was disbursed promptly . 
Eager to project himself as a world leader who understands regional sentiments . 
Get maximum aid from America . 
Diabetics routinely inject themselves with insulin . 
Around 320 million units of iv sets are used around the country annually . 
Neither pedigree , nor National Award winning director Vinay Shukla 's presence mattered . 
'' One hundred per cent she will grow on people , '' says Komal Nahta of the trade magazine Film Information . 
'' The director didn ` t exploit her potential in kmdsp . 
She wasn ` t happening in this film but given the right director , she will happen . '' 
Koi audience se bhi to poochhe ... 
'' Liverpool may have Michael Owen , but we have Harpal Singh . '' 
Singh 's parents , who came to England from India in the 1970s , have prodded him along enthusiastically . 
He 's growing in confidence . '' 
Singh wants to emulate his heroes , the sinewy Brazilian Ronaldo and , closer home , Manchester United 's Welsh winger Ryan Giggs . 
Blowing rings of cigarette smoke into the sultry afternoon air , Shakeela is unrepentant . 
For a high school dropout , Shakeela speaks flawless English , Hindi , Tamil and Urdu . 
'' There 's always a Ravana raping the hell out of me , '' she says . 
This pressure is partly responsible for the Pakistani proposal for talks on phased withdrawal of troops . 
Delhi is yet to decide on pulling back troops . 
Its assessment is that the fall in infiltration levels is due to the mobilisation of its armed-forces armed forces . 
Delhi doesn ` t agree with the US on the General 's leadership qualities . 
The diary has pictures depicting the symbolic destruction of Israel , Russia , the US and India . 
Being married to Shakuntala , a fellow artist , art critic and designer , also helped . 
Together , they traveled to many place across the globe and exhibited their work at shows that attracted curiosity and admiration . 
Bangalore playwright and stage director Mahesh Dattani is extending his repertoire with Mango Souffle , a film on '' sexuality in the metros '' . 
We are not among those who try everything , yet reach nowhere . 
To me , film is a wholesome , sensory experience . '' 
'' Lilette is keen but dates are a problem , '' she rues . 
Lajmi 's logic ? 
So why not ? 
A Classic Whodunnit ? 
In his next directorial excursion Shubho Maharat , Ghosh will do an Agatha Christie . 
And who 's Miss Marple ? 
Ghosh 's natural choice was Rakhee , who he thought looked like a '' domesticated Bengali woman with a fair sense of independence '' . 
So who gets bumped off ? 
But where are the Taliban leaders and their committed cadres ? 
Do they still have the clout to destabilise the Afghanistan Government ? 
More significantly for India , are they in a position to wreak havoc in Kashmir ? 
Think of the schools this money could build . 
These are the things we should expect from our elected representatives , not whether they can run steel factories or luxury hotels . 
If the Disinvestment Ministry succeeds in what it is doing it could be the most significant contribution of the Vajpayee Government . 
If this is true , and it appears to be , then as someone who has often attacked A . 
That evening , the state TV showed rare shots of a smiling ltte supremo Velupillai Prabhakaran signing the pact at an undisclosed location . 
Only seven months ago , he had masterminded the attack on the nation 's only international airport and the adjoining air-force air force base . 
On its part , the LTTE will halt its attacks on economic and civilian targets and its trademark assassinations using Black Tiger suicide bombers . 
Wickremesinghe described the deal as '' a first step towards peace '' in a country where over 60COMMA000 people have been killed since 1972 . 
Resistance was to come from unexpected quarters . 
She accused Wickremesinghe of violating the Constitution for having shown her the deed a day after the LTTE chief had signed it . 
The two played the practice round in Singapore and on the final day Singh followed his friend 's triumphant walk around the course . 
'' Arjun has improved every year , he has got his goals set . '' 
Thousands attempt the '' School '' , only the top 35 win Tour cards . 
Two years ago , they visited a yoga school in Munger , Bihar . 
Atwal found that meditation added muscle to his mental game . 
The film about the boy wizard and his adventures at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry has the approval of author J . 
The movie is just as she had imagined it , she says . 
The meticulousness extended to the search for a child actor to play Potter . 
The positional decisions taken by the Indian think tank in its early matches baffled many . 
Baljit Singh Saini , a midfielder , started the first match against Japan as center forward . 
Then , there were five substitutions in six minutes , driving spectators dizzy . 
He told India Today from Mumbai , '' Saini played like this at the Sydney Olympics . 
Jugraj played in the same position in the Champions Challenge . 
We have been using the same system for the past year and a half . 
Is it suddenly all wrong ? 
That 's hogwash . '' 
'' It 's a skilled team . 
With the right inputs , it will do very well . '' 
The facts are clear . 
Indian coaches , 13 of them in 11 years , have failed miserably . 
It 's time to open minds in Indian hockey . 
Nationality does not matter . 
Winning matters . 
It 's time to accept that answers probably lie with someone outside India and outside Indian hockey . 
Five succumbed to old age . 
'' The upkeep of the tigers will be borne by the foundation , '' says P . 
Balayogi was too modest to speak about his origins and meteoric rise . 
The loss is overwhelming not only for the TDP , but also for the state 's politically conscious Godavari delta . 
Though some of the idols were later found , the motive behind the burglaries are still cloudy . 
Some say that ancient scriptures had predicted the disappearance , while others say the burglaries were attempts to embarrass the Government . 
'' We will soon get to the bottom of the story , '' says Arun Sarangi , superintendent of police , Khurdah district . 
Thefts of jewellery were reported from four temples in Berhampur in Ganjam district during the last week of October . 
The kindly Rameshwar Paliwal , an RSS pracharak , began the young boy 's lifelong association with the Sangh . 
Now he insists , '' Indian society urgently needs radical surgery . '' 
By the looks of it , he is holding the scalpel . 
Only that he prefers to build them on earth . 
Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans dreams , and interprets them too . 
Like in 1949 when Ram Lalla '' ordered '' him to construct a temple at His janmasthan . 
Luckily for him , dreams also get radically affected by the changes in the litigation process . 
Local Muslims protest , the city magistrate attaches the property but prayers continue . 
The VHP celebrates the decision . 
At its Palampur session , the BJP officially supports the building of a temple at the Babri Masjid site . 
The Allahabad High Court issues interim directive to maintain the status quo of the disputed property pending final judgement . 
All district court cases are transferred to it . 
This is followed by rioting . 
In the polls , the BJP tally rises from 2 to 86 . 
Thousands of kar sevaks gather in Ayodhya and 30 are killed in police firing . 
The V . 
BJP tally moves up from 86 to 119 . 
It also wins in UP assembly polls . 
Ayodhya is left out on the excuse that the matter is in the courts . 
BMAC challenges the notification . 
The state government assures court that the structure will be protected . 
Rioting breaks out all over India leaving 1COMMA200 people dead . 
His factory was ransacked by a crowd before being blown up by dynamite . 
It will , of course , not be entirely eliminated for some time , but will progressively go down . 
The problem of communalism is much wider than the incidence of communal riots . 
Thankfully , violence never has a statewide or a nationwide spread . 
The writer is associate professor and director , Center for South Asian Studies , University of Michigan . 
This time it is because the Supreme Court has ordered the closing of tanneries on the eastern fringes of Kolkata . 
No single group or faction can bring peace to that country . '' 
His ominous tone echoed Pakistani concerns about the lack of representation of the majority Pashtoon community within the Northern Alliance . 
Many of these industries were in the urban areas . 
According to Sir Watt , in 1906 , there were 31COMMA827 plantations , employing 24COMMA447 persons permanently and 46COMMA044 temporarily . 
Among these were a large number of women and children . 
Rubber is yet another plantation industry which was started by the Europeans . 
Rubber , however , was a minor industry in comparison with tea and even coffee . 
The imperial government operated its own plantations in Assam , but the results were not encouraging . 
The breakthrough came in 1900 , when the ruler of Travancore successfully introduced rubber in his state . 
During the following years , cultivation spread to Cochin , Coorg and Malabar . 
The prospect before the plantation industries was either certain extinction or limitless growth . 
If indigo cultivation remained now only in name , tea was poised for greater heights of progress . 
The enterprising J . 
During the first stage of the movement of the industry away from Bombay , we observe a preference for centres within the Bombay Presidency . 
There was one more mill set up at Baroach in 1861 , and simultaneously the first Ahmedabad mill was founded . 
The first unit outside the Presidency was established at Kanpur in 1865 . 
Sholapur and Nagpur had their first mills in 1877 . 
The exchange crisis cast a cloud over the exports of yarn . 
As a result , the pace of progress was somewhat slowed . 
Between 1900 and 1905 , only ten new mills were added . 
But the development of the petroleum industry was very slow . 
Petroleum resources were confined mainly to Burma and most of , the output was supplied to the mainland . 
Besides these , there were oil deposits in Attock , but they were minor in comparison . 
Assam showed distinct potentialities and was rapidly developed during the early twenties . 
In 1924 , Burma produced 253.4 , Assam 33.5 and Attock 19.2 million gallons . 
The demand for petrol and kerosene was , however , growing fast and imports were increasing in sympathy . 
Dividends were paid between 1923 and 1925 only by drawing on reserves . 
The extraordinary profits were given away in dividends . 
Considerations of enduring availability of raw materials , finance , skills , market or of favourable location , scale , etc . 
The resultant development was bound to be lopsided . 
Unfortunately , very soon the partition of the country threw everything out of gear . 
Table 7.3 would give , at a glance , the effect of Partition on the industrial economy of the country . 
If Dalmiya is serious about accountability , he should turn the pointed finger at himself and the BCCI . 
Their '' honorary '' jobs prevent them from being fired so that 's accountability out the window right there . 
What , just got back from a nice vacation on Mars ? 
It will take another AGM to approve of the Ranji revamp , this after a technical committee that included Sunil Gavaskar had recommended it . 
But Gowarikar persisted . 
On the second narration , Khan agreed to play the feisty villager Bhuvan . 
With Lagaan , he decided to break the promise . 
Lagaan broke the jinx proving that a successful actor can also possess the passion , daring and discipline to make a successful film . 
Perhaps not . 
Lagaan is too difficult a proposition to emulate . 
Three thousand people worked for six months in harsh conditions to create the film . 
But will the Bollywood director or writer , spurred by Lagaan 's originality and vision , let his imagination run unfettered ? 
Two fifties in 10 innings . 
Leander Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi know what they did . 
They won their third Grand Slam title at Roland Garros this June , almost two years after their second . 
It was as calculated a choice as that step up the incline . 
All India 's champs this year will have to make similar choices soon . 
Badminton No . 
He will have to defend his title playing under the new rules early next year . 
The biggest winners this year were little people whose dilemmas will come later , but arrive they must . 
Lagaan broke the rules , redefined commercial cinema and is playing at the Oscars . 
Now he 's even asked Sahaya to come home and forget his heart . 
A court case could well be filed against her before election time . 
The event managers , Show Craft , also sent a model of the card to 7 Race Course Road . 
In the evening , Goel took sycophancy to lyrical levels by organising a kavi sammelan . 
Also released was a book of poems by Vajpayee , translated into English by diplomat Pavan Varma . 
'' I never thought I would be recognised as a poet , '' Vajpayee confessed . 
Gill begins his article in The Pioneer by spelling out exactly why all our attempts to fight terrorism are doomed to fail . 
Now , increasingly , it is beginning to seem as if nobody is serious about doing the things that would make a real difference . 
India is being misled into believing that the solution to all our problems is a quick , sharp strike against Pakistan . 
That won ` t be long , for in Madhya Pradesh , there 's a death through Sanlekhana almost every fortnight . 
The literal translation of this ancient Jain rite is '' purging of all ills '' from the body . 
The Al Qaida is clearly India 's new and present danger . 
The scale of destruction that a hundred of them now in India could unleash is too difficult to comprehend and too terrifying to imagine . 
Only for the unsavoury truth to be reiterated when 123 SIMI activists were arrested in Surat last week . 
More significantly , it unearthed SIMI 's hitherto unknown US connection . 
Suhel is also said to be in constant touch with Badr 's legal adviser in Delhi , Anees , regarding the funds . 
A decade down the line SIMI is as active and its objectives as undiluted . 
It will perhaps take sterner measures than an easily flouted ban to curb the fundamentalist fervor of a fanatic organization . 
UDDHAV THACKERAY Bal Thackeray 's son on the Shiv Sena 's , and his , future 
To me it 's not going to make any difference . 
I have been handling the party 's affairs since 1995 and will continue to do the work assigned to me . 
As of now there is only one pramukh and that is my father . 
Significantly , many buildings that were marked for demolition inside the walled city in Bhuj still stand in precarious conditions . 
And families who are yet to get the Rs 12COMMA000 compensation for building makeshift houses have moved into these tottering structures . 
Tailor Pravin Dhamecha is one of them . 
'' What else can I do , '' he asks . 
'' I will die here if God wants me to . '' 
Also banking on time are Mehmood Khalifa and his wife Roshan . 
The bench included A . 
The statement was met with silence containing equal parts awe and anticipation . 
'' Slowly , we are getting there , '' says Rene Bareto , one of the founders of the Indian Football Supporters Club . 
Around 70 Asian players are now attached to professional clubs and youth coaching academies . 
Harpal Singh has thrown open the doors of immense possibility . 
She knew zilch about sex . 
My money is running out . '' 
But penury is nothing new for Shakeela . 
At times , she has sold jewellery to support the family . 
The day she got her first pay , she couldn ` t sleep . 
Today , she is an incurable insomniac , '' bored '' to bits with her life . 
She 's nice , but with Amazonic proportions . 
How can anyone be attracted to her ? '' 
Yet , in Kerala , vendors peddle Shakeela ice creams . 
'' Many people don ` t admit that they are my fans . 
People who put money in my films get it back , '' says Shakeela . 
But Malayalam actor Mammootty will take none of it . 
While he admits to having met a Kerala minister to address the issue , he 's certain '' the Shakeela era is over '' . 
They don ` t want my films to be released the same time as theirs . '' 
But the Shakeela genre looks set for a hard time . 
The sleaze factory may have quietened for now , but Shakeela refuses to alight from her throne . 
It may go by the handle of India 's most famous nuclear missile . 
The target is China whose key southern cities lie in the range of 3COMMA000 km and 5COMMA000 km from India . 
For Pakistan , however , India had since the late 1980s secretly prepared its Mirage 2000 aircraft to carry atomic bombs . 
The short range Prithvi missile that flies just 150 km was also readied . 
Agni I , as it was christened , has major differences from its longer range cousin . 
In comparison , a Boeing 737 would take 50 minutes to cover the same distance . 
'' Its shorter distance and the high rate of acceleration meant we had to redesign its guidance control system , '' says R . 
They have also made the missile road mobile , which makes concealing and deploying it much easier . 
And he attributed this to '' heavy snowfall in Kashmir and Jhelum valleys '' . 
As a result , India has linked troop withdrawal on the borders with '' visible '' improvement on ground . 
Another proposal envisages a regular interface between the intelligence and military establishments of the two sides . 
Not quite . 
He wanted the private sector to emulate the example of corporate America ; undertake supplier diversity and affirmative action . 
In a deregulated economy , they wanted Dalits to become entrepreneurs and traders . 
They asked the government to intervene in the market on their behalf and make some obligatory purchases from them . 
'' It is as much a symbol of peace as it is of war . 
And you can change a bomb into a bloom . '' 
Most of his collages are simple , though some have a Salvador Dali touch to them . 
He usually opens his lectures with a Vedic chant and then invites questions from the audience . 
His target group comprises mostly children because he believes that it is in their hands that the future lies . 
The mind , he tells you , is like clay which can be easily moulded . 
And the fresher the clay , the better the impression . 
For Balu , the medium and the means of communication are as vital as his message . 
The effort is to go about it in a manner that is as unimposing as possible . 
Collages , he feels , are very effective in this respect . 
Collage communication apart , Balu also draws from a vast repository of insightful stories , anecdotes and verses to regale his young audiences . 
American President Abraham Lincoln , he once related , was found polishing his shoes . 
'' Yes , '' replied Lincoln , adding , '' Whose shoes do you polish ? '' 
For the time being , the Taliban focus appears to be Kabul and there is no indication they will cross the loc in Kashmir . 
But then , as in the past , it is the ISI and not the Taliban that decides policy issues . 
The South Block officials are not known to get overly excited about anything . 
The call sent the ministry into a tizzy . 
Abhyankar rushed to inform External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh and Foreign Secretary Chokila Iyer about the breakthrough . 
Union Home Secretary Kamal Pande convened a meeting , where mea officials and CBI Director P . 
The letter was delivered personally to the Sheikh by K . 
While on the surface the Ansari deportation appears smooth , it was a diplomatic coup painstakingly planned by Indian officials . 
Union Home Minister L . 
This despite the extradition or the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty signed on October 25 1999 . 
But September 11 proved to be a turning point . 
There have also been instances when he has smuggled in drugs , arms and ammunition into India . 
The information was shared with those who needed to know it . 
We are examining Sheikh 's role in the attack on the American Center in Kolkata . 
Senior administration officials in the US privately say the time has come for Musharraf to walk the talk . 
The US steered away from getting drawn into any intervention on Kashmir . 
The reiteration of return to democracy by this September was obviously an uncomfortable moment for the General . 
It fears that the political vacuum created by military rule would get filled by religious extremists . 
It has allocated $ 600 million in economic aid this financial year for Pakistan and has proposed $ 250 million in its 2003 budget . 
Designer Tarun Tahiliani 's saris now include sheer lycra as well . 
Tahiliani designs saris which end at the ankle and can be teamed with boots or bejewelled shoes , some worn without petticoats . 
Designers have understood what women want . 
Upwardly mobile urban women found the ethnic alluring , but felt that it restricted their mobility at work . 
The change he is charged with bringing about goes by the name of disinvestment . 
A word the Indian government had to invent because mere mention of privatisation causes socialist hackles to rise . 
In a cloak room there , Ali had introduced Bhalla to the pleasures of coke . 
Ali was charging Bhalla an astounding Rs 4COMMA500 a gram . 
High pes indicate bull runs on the stock market and low pes mark a bearish phase . 
Now there is a mutual fund scheme that helps investors book profits when the market is up or increase exposure when it is down . 
It has set six such PE levels for the market . 
If the markets recede and the PE comes down , the fund will again increase its exposure to equities by shifting money from debt . 
The portfolio will be reviewed on a monthly basis . 
Rivals , however , insist that the probes are motivated , either to nail political opponents or to sweep contentious issues under the carpet . 
Take Bijoy Mohapatra , one of Patnaik 's strongest rivals and president of the Orissa Gana Parishad . 
A vigilance case was slapped against him for '' misdemeanors '' committed as irrigation minister under Biju Patnaik . 
There are others who are unimpressed by Patnaik 's love of probes . 
'' He had promised several things , including jobs for the unemployed . 
Charting the careers of his children Aryan and Juhi , who are soon making their film debut , is also a matter of priority . 
Which , of course , leaves little time for sundry errands . 
Like attending the Lok Sabha , where he represents the important Agra constituency . 
Babbar attended the Lok Sabha for only five days during the 2001 winter session . 
Suggestions , however , are redundant in face of the nonchalance with which the MPs play truant . 
Rules , after all , are meant to be broken . 
up has long determined the fate of Indian politics . 
Right now though there is an uncanny similarity between the politics of that state and the state of the Indian economy . 
The future of both hangs in balance . 
Only the stakes are very different . 
In up , if Rajnath Singh loses Mulayam or somebody else wins . 
On February 28 , if Sinha fails , every Indian loses somethinga job prospect , a higher income or a business opportunity . 
The sins of past failures are already showing . 
The members also decided to meet on the second day of the budget session to consider and adopt the revised draft . 
On February 26 , a different drama unfolded . 
Then to the surprise of Mohan and others , the 10 Congress members voted to prevent FDI in print media . 
The Samajwadi Party too did a volte face . 
Normally once issues are conclusively settled at a parliamentary standing committee , it is not changed . 
The debate over FDI is as fierce as the stake is large . 
The argument that the print media alone needs protection , they say , is specious . 
The country has 70 million television households , half of which have cable and satellite connections . 
TV channels broadcasting foreign programs have viewership incomparably larger than newspaper readership . 
The group has realised that the most remarkable stories are found where least expected . 
Companies this year placed orders for betw ` een 500 and 5COMMA000 copies of the diaries , and each cost around Rs 50 . 
However , the diaries are not for sale in the retail market , which is how Trisys sidesteps copyright problems . 
After the initial diaries were circulated , Trisys found itself flooded with orders . 
A media consultant took several samples to a pr conference abroad , and called back to ask for more . 
A Bengal politician wants to distribute them among the MLAs in his party . 
'' Perhaps one reason for the demand is that about 60 per cent of our content is Indian , '' feels a Trisys employee . 
This diary item then is easier to relate to than a tale of gumption set in an obscure American town . 
It also makes for good bedside reading . 
His name is Arjun Atwal , he 's going to be 30 on March 20 and he comes from Kolkata . 
Shake his hand . 
Atwal had wiped his doubts clean in Singapore . 
Not even the sight of the great Faldo loping up ahead of him took his eye off his own game . 
'' If there was anyone who was going to beat me , it was me , '' he says . 
This winter , his first five EPGA events came and went without a top 10 finish . 
'' I thought I was going to win this year and I figured it would be soon , '' he says . 
An EPGA title victory is an elusive butterfly ; as Singh has discovered after five tough years on the Tour . 
Performances other than those on the dance floor ? 
'' Next time we 'll probably include Chandigarh as a venue , '' says player and game promoter Adhiraj Singh . 
Good ... the sleepy city needs to have more fun . 
Passenger fares , especially of the lower classes , will go up by 6 to 15 per cent from April 1 2002 . 
Prahlad Kakkar , a prolific diver supporting the RMCI , counters this . 
Kakkar points out that fishermen earn only 20 per cent of the sale value of a shark . 
India is one of the largest exporters of shark fins today . 
Until then , the shark population in the country will continue to swim in troubled waters . 
The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government 's attempts to negotiate a settlement to the Ayodhya dispute are probably its most extensive diplomatic maneuver . 
In contrast , mobilising international opinion against Pakistan would seem a cakewalk . 
The Government 's hopes are now pinned on Swami Jayendra Saraswati , Shankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam . 
To the orthodox Hindu , the Shankaracharya occupies one of the most revered seats in the faith . 
He embodies an honorable escape route for all parties . 
The Shankaracharya arrived in Delhi on March 4 . 
He also met a battery of constitutional lawyers , consulted Law Minister Arun Jaitley , Home Minister L . 
PMO official Sudheendra Kulkarni always seemed to be around , as did Samata Party spokesman Shambhu Srivastava . 
Srivastava had taken over the role of government envoy from his party colleague , Defence Minister George Fernandes . 
Every evening Jayendra Saraswati drove down to 7 Race Course Road to brief the prime-minister prime minister on his peace initiative . 
In January 1993 , this land was acquired by the Union government . 
Also taken over was a surrounding area of 67 acres . 
The Shankaracharya 's proposal sought to insulate the 0.31 acre . 
It had three broad components . 
The VHP would agree to abide by the judicial ruling on the ownership of the 0.31 acre . 
The VHP had announced it would begin construction of the temple on March 12 . 
The VHP 's call to Vajpayee to give back its 43 acres was referred by the prime-minister prime minister to his law minister . 
Jaitley 's opinion , it is understood , is not unfavourable . 
It suggests that the Government will be within its rights to transfer possession of the undisputed land . 
The Shankaracharya 's formula is not altogether new . 
So it is anticipation time inside the temple complex . 
'' Oh , he had such a hectic schedule ... you know , from four in the morning to 12 in the night . 
Yesterday was really bad . 
How many of them ! 
As for the heaving , throbbing spirit , it has been hacked and burnt , pillaged and plundered , left for dead . 
Which is perhaps why breathing life into the state 's Muslim community seems less of an option , more of an impossibility for now . 
It is a community oppressed by figures . 
Of a death toll numbering 750 according to official records , but probably double that . 
Of the Rs 3COMMA000 crore suffered in losses as estimated by the community 's leaders . 
This last is the most forbidding . 
For besides their homes , many thousands have lost their livelihood . 
Speculation is rife on the reason for the attacks on this section of the community . 
They feel Muslims want to benefit from secularism without making an effort to strengthen it . 
A stage has come when the Hindus are just not prepared to be at the receiving end . '' 
Thakar believes there was rioting on such a large scale only because of a spontaneous Hindu upsurge . 
The VHP 's alleged involvement in inciting violence was , therefore , incidental . 
Thakar 's views find a diametrically opposing expression in some of the camps housing displaced Muslims . 
A man steeped in the RSS philosophy , Modi knew his natural constituency . 
He denies that this influenced his responses but the casualties tell a different story of administrative callousness . 
In RSS circles , Modi has another minus point . 
Last year , when he returned to Gujarat as the chief minister , there was a widespread feeling that Modi had mellowed . 
'' He has become another victim of the Vajpayee virus , '' it was said . 
After last fortnight 's riots , secularists may be referring to him as Chief Monster . 
The resurgence of the Ayodhya agitation and the violence surrounding it raise two important questions . 
What was the pattern of violence during the previous turbulent phase of the Ayodhya movement ? 
And what might one expect now ? 
The previous high was in 1969 , primarily as a consequence of the horrific rioting in Ahmedabad . 
The city has 531 tanneries , of which Tangra , or Chinatown , has 230 . 
Besides manufacturing facilities , CLC has provisions for providing 40 million litres of water a day , a key input for tanning . 
But the Chinese tanners , most of whom have booked land at Bantala , are having second thoughts . 
The riches of the leather economy have brought to the community the taste of good life . 
There are Ford Ikons and Honda Accords parked behind the high walls . 
The Hakkas were driven from their original home in present day Xianjiang province around 250 a d by drought and the invasions of locusts . 
The '' guest people '' have forgotten most of the Hakka customs and languages in the West but not in India . 
The amount she wanted wasn ` t huge but it was sufficient for her to pay for a power connection at home . 
'' We haven ` t become rich , '' says Dhal . '' 
Like Dhal , there are many other women leading anonymous lives in the remote regions of Orissa who are now daring to dream . 
Garg should know best . 
But unlike most children her age , she doesn ` t ask her parents for pocket money . 
Instead , she just uses her debit card to withdraw money from the ATM . 
Kavisha 's sister Urvisha , 7 , also has a debit card . 
Noble and his wife Anitha don ` t have the time to go to the bank and stand in a queue . 
They just log on to their bank through the Internet or give instructions on the phone or hop across to the neighborhood ATM counter . 
Some nationalised banks too are shedding their stodgy images and jazzing up their services in a bid to keep up with the trend . 
'' Customers are short of time and want to deal in their own time . 
On the positive side , the Pakistan and the Northern Alliance may be trying to build bridges . 
It is being claimed that Musharraf received reconciliatory feelers in his meetings with Iranian and Turkish leaders who have influence in the Northern Alliance . 
This would be of mutual benefit . 
One criticism of Pakistani policy has been that ideologically motivated intelligence operatives had made Pakistan put all its eggs in the Taliban basket . 
Given the fluidity of the situation and Mullah Omar 's calls for a guerrilla war , such a presumption may be too early . 
In which case , renewed conflict in Afghanistan would certainly spill across the Durand Line . 
The rest of the party too is having second thoughts . 
The result was that there was a surfeit of cheap , crude articles which ruined the true craftsman and his art . 
Bijapur , once at the peak of prosperity , lost its glory with the fall of the Adil Shahi . 
So did Golconda , Ahmednagar and Tanjore . 
In the north , Lucknow met with a similar fate with the fall of the Nawabs of Oudh after the Mutiny . 
His opinion on disinvestment was ditto . 
It 's just the sort of decisiveness the Congress needs . 
'' My only regret is not having a good Opposition , '' he said . 
Well , for the Chautalas politics has always been family business , hasn ` t it ? 
But there was limited scope for the adoption of the system as the local people were neither mentally nor technically equipped for it . 
The Company , therefore , turned its attention to plantation industries , starting with indigo . 
It is not easy to demarcate the stages of industrial revolution in India as one would in Europe or England . 
During the next fifty years die factory system became entrenched in this country . 
The year 1850 may be regarded as the watershed which marked this country 's graduation to modern industry . 
Indigo cultivation thus did not mark the beginning of capitalist organization in India . 
In fact it offered little scope for capitalist development . 
Later , it encouraged planters by guarantees to purchase their crops and by advancing loans against future deliveries . 
At this stage , the planters , in turn , ensured delivery by cultivators by adopting similar measures . 
This shifting of cultivation to the eastern provinces caused the extinction of production in the traditional centres of Gujarat and western India . 
Experienced planters from the West Indies were brought to facilitate the adoption of the plantation techniques in indigo cultivation . 
After the 1860 enquiry , however , indigo cultivation was forced out of Bengal . 
In spite of the troubled times through which the industry was passing , production kept on increasing during the 19th century . 
Exports also increased pari passu . 
In the background of a century of phenomenal progress , the result of this development was disastrous . 
Between 1896 and 1914 the area under indigo and its exports had a precipitous fall . 
It dropped to a mere tenth of what it was eighteen years before . 
At a Congress Working Committee meeting , nearly everybody endorsed the idea . 
The sole dissenter was Kamal Nath , the only CWC member who has never sat in the House of Elders . 
Nath should put his money where his mouth is and seek Rajya Sabha election from his state of domicile , West Bengal . 
The Subhash group is far from happy . 
'' Sadhu has played his cards discreetly . 
When he was made chairman of an assembly committee , he warned his supporters not to publicise it , '' recalls an RJD MLA . 
In the best year , exports reached a level of Rs 3.5 crores . 
Efforts were made to import tea plants and seeds from China for plantation in India . 
Tea plantation turned into a mania . 
The local officials even used their discretion in protecting the rights of the wild tribes inhabiting these lands . 
The recovery that followed was slow . 
There was an improvement in the methods of cultivation , and productivity per acre increased . 
The total acreage rose to 284COMMA000 acres in 1885 , and to 433COMMA133 acres in 1896 . 
Men and women were employed in equal numbers and children too found work in plucking operations . 
On the manufacturing side , however , mechanisation was rapid after 1860 ; it was almost complete after 1870 . 
The tasks of were all automatically handled by machines , and the final product emerged untouched by human hand . 
But labor had to be attracted from distant areas to inhospitable Assam . 
Wages in the sixties varied between Rs 2 and Rs 5 per worker in Assam . 
In good times , a man earned Rs 6 , a woman Rs 5 and a child Rs 3 per month . 
Workers were deployed from the garden to the factory or the other way round , depending on the needs of the situation . 
The plantation and the factory constituted one management unit although the latter came to be regulated under the Factory Act after 1922 . 
The Bengal sun was too hot for coffee . 
Cultivation was next tried in the south , and it met with success in the Bangalore and Coimbatore regions . 
The years between 1830 and 1860 saw a steady growth of the coffee industry . 
There was a general boom around 1860 , generated by the abnormal demand for Indian coffee during the American civil war . 
coffee had its share in the consequent prosperity . 
Between 1860 and 1870 , exports increased tenfold and this trend continued during the next decade . 
In the meanwhile , however , many disquieting developments were taking place . 
If the tea boom at the time burst under its own weight , the coffee industry received a severe blow from a dreadful affliction . 
This year marked a turning point in the history of indigo trade and indigo production . 
And by 1910 , neither indigo nor coffee figured among the twelve most important items of export . 
Tea , coffee and indigo exports were characterised by the fact that their export was largely directed towards a single destination , viz . 
But the promoters found it difficult to undertake their schemes without financial assistance from the government . 
This came to be called the guarantee system . 
A staunch supporter of laissez faire , he thought that railway building was none of government 's business . 
He favored private companies undertaking this work . 
They charged a heavy commission , but neglected proper maintenance and development . 
Coal mining was a very loosely organised industry , though this was somewhat inevitable by the very nature of its operations . 
Iron and steel manufacture is the very foundation of modern industrial structure . 
However , it too , like coal , did not keep its date in the sequence of growth in India . 
As a result , India 's industrial development lacked logic and perspective . 
This was nowhere more true than in the case of the development of the iron and steel industry . 
India has also pledged one million tonnes of wheat for Afghanistan . 
The medical component of the liaison cell is expected to revive the Indira Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children in Kabul . 
India has been running a hospital at Farkhor in Tajikistan all along . 
During the Taliban regime , Russia , Iran and India backed the Northern Alliance . 
The only Indian diplomatic contact with the Taliban was during the IA hijacking . 
The Indian initiative has come soon after Pakistan proposed a bilateral initiative with Iran in Afghanistan . 
The nineties , however , saw the beginning of exchange difficulties in the wake of a progressive decline in the value of the rupee . 
So by the year end it was decided to bring cotton goods also under the levy . 
There was a lengthy debate as to who was the sufferer because of the duties . 
The government , unable to satisfy either , had to readjust the levies further . 
As a result , conflicting tariff policies emerged to suit such interests . 
The most glaring examples of this related to the two sister textile industries , cotton and jute . 
Between the Indian and England jute industries , there was a community of interest , both being owned by the Scots . 
It seems that jute as such was not particularly favored for cultivation in India by the Company officials . 
The realisation , therefore , soon followed that jute cultivation on an extended scale could meet these needs . 
Handloom weaving of jute fabrics was an old industry in Bengal . 
The manufacture of finer cloth , which was a substitute for silk shirtings , was also not uncommon . 
The Bengal handloom weaver enjoyed a world monopoly in gunny bags and jute cloth . 
Thus began the history of the great Dundee jute industry which , in the past , had been known for its linen manufacture . 
By 1850 , Dundee was making extensive use of jute . 
Thus was lost another Indian textile industry to Europe . 
Unlike the cotton textile industry , however , it was not too late in homecoming . 
The man behind the transformation of this tiny village is a native who works in Delhi as a physician . 
Started in the courtyard of a dilapidated haveli , the Johri Rifle Club failed to generate enthusiasm . 
'' Initially , the villagers felt I was misleading their children who needed to work in the fields , '' says Rajpal . 
The club started with four trainees , most of them children of Rajpal 's friends . 
The turnaround came when two elderly women became members . 
Encouraged by Rajpal and her own family , Tomar started practising seriously . 
This sharpened the conflict between Dundee and Calcutta . 
This was another reason why efficiency of the industry increased . 
It enjoyed the economies of management as the size of each individual unit increased . 
If the cotton industry produced mainly for domestic consumption , jute and jute manufactures were essentially export items . 
With its monopoly in jute , India had a unique advantage in jute exports . 
The jute industry earned an important place in the Indian economy also for reasons other than its foreign exchange earnings . 
Thus the industry generated higher incomes every succeeding year . 
The control and management by foreigners was total and exclusive . 
Their number increased rapidly after 1890 . 
However , all these activities did not constitute manufacturing proper and were insignificant in the context of industrial development . 
The engineering industry followed in the wake of the railways . 
The dawn of the 20th century saw wider application of mechanical power , and small workshops , flour mills , etc . 
Mineral production in the last century was confined to coal and gold mining , the latter taking the pride of place . 
Even as late as 1911 , gold mining provided livelihood to more than 28COMMA000 workers . 
However , more important mineral industries were coming into existence , not to mention the phenomenal growth of coal mining . 
However , the figures may be considered fairly representative of the dimensions and the composition of investment in modern branches of the economy . 
Together with trade , transport and banking , etc . 
Modern industrialisation was a new phenomenon on the Indian horizon , and the industrial skyline was changing exotically , after stagnation of centuries . 
However , shorn of its novelty , progress was on the whole slow and sporadic . 
It was historical logic that the industrial revival in India was led by an industry producing for mass consumption , viz . 
Thus there was no parallel progress along the entire line of industry stretching backwards from the end product to machinery making . 
While coal was a solitary example of basic industry , there was no capital goods industry as such . 
The Commission observed that India 's record of industrialisation was disappointing , and that it was necessary to impart stimulus through protection . 
It did not formulate a definite policy , but recommended the creation of a Tariff Board to examine the claims for protection . 
The recommendations were accepted by the government and a Tariff Board was set up in 1923 . 
We shall have occasion to go into numerous case studies of its application and to examine the soundness of the policy . 
The Munitions Board , set up in 1917 , Was yet one more indication of the government 's readiness to encourage indigenous production . 
In fact , it underlined the need and advisability of the government undertaking active production . 
The railway management underwent ' an almost revolutionary change ' in the twenties . 
As we have seen earlier , the railway program was subjected to the general financial exigencies of the government . 
The political climate was , in the meanwhile , changing rapidly ; it had important economic implications . 
The political reforms , though never fully adopted and implemented , entailed basic changes in the economic and financial policies of the government . 
Political consciousness was now superimposed on economic consciousness . 
Probably this was a sign of the country having arrived politically and of getting braced up for the economic tasks ahead . 
This was in marked contrast to the vigorous development of earlier years . 
But it was clear that the vigorous and major phase of expansion was over by the early years of the present century . 
Railway workshops were geared to production of war materials . 
He sat down yet again with still a paragraph to go . 
More than a thousand people have been arrested since the ban . 
'' It 's easy to arrest these guys , '' says Commissioner of Police K . 
'' We just keep an eye on tea and paan shops where people gather to smoke . '' 
Maybe the cows can decide on this one . 
This , he believes , is vital for the future of the party . 
Soon doctors will recommend measures and prescribe medicines to tone up the health of the 5COMMA000 members of the party 's general body . 
Its completion in 1927 raised the capacity of the Tata companies to 246COMMA000 hp . 
This met the power requirements of Bombay city and its industries , tramways and suburban railways . 
Mysore had two new schemes , raising its capacity to 89COMMA000 hp . 
The later schemes , like Pykara and Mettur in Madras , were combined with irrigation facilities . 
India had established , on the eve of the Second World War , a capacity of around 400COMMA000 hp or 3 lakh kW . 
But this power was by no means cheap , welcome as it was in view of the poorly developed power resources in the country . 
But power in India was neither cheap nor adequate . 
The price per unit was five to ten times higher in India than in some of the Western countries . 
The conventional trade cycle was submerged under the impact of the rising prices all round . 
The difficulties of imports from Manchester , mainly of bleached and dyed goods , opened up a new avenue of demand for the industry . 
In an increasingly seller 's market , they were not worried over the loss of the Chinese yarn market . 
In a matter of a few years , Japan emerged as a serious competitor and continued to cause unending worry to this country . 
The speculation cycle now seemed to be set in the reverse gear . 
The war years were a period of arrested development of the industry in view of the difficulties of importing machinery and stores . 
It observed that the financial assistance provided by shipping subsidies must have been considerable . 
But it was of the opinion that state assistance in itself did not constitute an unfair advantage . 
Moreover , it argued that state aid to industry was a universal phenomenon . 
Even then , it had to admit that the Japanese exports had got stimulation in the past . 
If so , such encouragement must have been a factor in enabling Japan to get a hold in the Indian market . 
Even the progressive Ahmedabad mills had made only a limited shift to finer counts . 
Whatever ' unfair ' advantages Japan might have enjoyed , there was no belittling the rapid technical progress that country was making . 
If an average Japanese operative looked after 240 spindles , the number was only 180 in India . 
The figures for the UK and the USA were still higher at 500 to 6 COMMA000 and around 1COMMA100 respectively . 
It could not be said that Indian labor was inherently inefficient . 
Unlike in other countries , the spinners were paid less than the weavers , which constituted a disincentive to the former . 
A lack of foresight and progressive outlook was evident in the failure of the mills to adopt improved techniques of production . 
Now imports were restricted to varieties not produced in India in the required quantities . 
The Tariff Board was called upon to conduct the third enquiry in 1936 into the effects of tariff changes since 1930 . 
From Laptop Guru to Telugu Robin Hood ? 
It gives the Taliban and its cohorts enough time to escape from Kandahar to Pakistan and live to fight another way , another day . 
His worst known nightmare is compulsory college education for women . 
There were some 6COMMA000 power looms in 1939 , and more than 3COMMA000 looms formed the nucleus of the rayon industry . 
The jute industry was riding on a mounting wave of prosperity when the war broke out . 
They also manufactured more sophisticated products out of jute , such as shirtings , curtains , carpets and rugs . 
Finer varieties of jute were mixed with silk and wool . 
The stalk of the jute plant had an immense potential as raw material for paper making , which was hardly being explored . 
The war broke out soon after it attained full capacity , and it made increasing demands on it . 
During the period of the war , the Tatas supplied to government 1COMMA500 miles of rails and 3 lakh tons of other steel material . 
The depression of the early twenties created a glut of steel and the prices went tumbling . 
The estimate of cost too was far from that expected . 
This meant an increase in interest and depreciation charges and higher capital costs . 
The delay in putting up capacity also involved a loss of production in the meanwhile . 
This infant industry , with a great potential , was struggling to find its feet in the face of great odds . 
In the meanwhile , however , the depreciating continental exchange rates were partially neutralising the effect of protection . 
The situation was so fluid that , besides major enquiries by the Tariff Board , frequent supplementary references had to be made to it . 
However , soon there was a further fall in the world steel prices . 
Others eagerly await the chance to continue their education in the open and without fear of reprisals . 
Conditions for women are still appalling by international standards . 
The maternity death rate , for example , is the second highest in the world . 
And if one removed other income , the drop in net profit would be 41.8 per cent . 
The project will enable sales of an additional 2.5 million tonnes of steel . 
Till September this year , China produced 92.4 million tonnes and India 20 million tonnes . 
Can that offset the lack of spend due to a million jobs lost in the past two years ? 
After all , money paid in salaries is in a way creating spending power whether or not assets are created . 
Small wonder then that even at these lower rates there are few takers among corporates . 
Further , exports are up in rupee terms at Rs 82COMMA841 crore in the first five months of the year . 
But this has been accompanied by the 6.1 per cent or $ 800 million fall in oil imports . 
But I would give the Government seven on a scale of 10 for its efforts . 
But one should see the overall performance and then evaluate their efforts . 
We want education to be based on scientific , historically proven facts . 
He is working in this direction . 
We want education to be a balanced mix of conventionalism and modernity . 
Evidence is surfacing to prove that some parts of history were imposed on us and are wrong . 
It 's every Hindu 's desire the mandir is built there . 
Men and women in rags and naked children sleeping on pavements . 
There is first the excitement of entering a government building that reeks of uncleaned toilets and unopened files . 
It is a smell peculiar to India since most of our old socialist pals have long improved their ways . 
There is a semblance of order here . 
He usually speaks impeccable English and you think for a moment that you are perhaps better off here than in China . 
The Congress , which was supporting POTO with some amendments , is now following our line of complete opposition to the ordinance . 
The entire Opposition stands united on various other issues like George Fernandes ' reinduction , Ayodhya and SIMI . 
The Congress doesn ` t have a presence in up . 
Anyway we did not discuss the up elections during our dinner meeting . 
Her nature has changed but not her policies . 
It has been likened to a '' David Dhawan film '' . 
So what 's new ? 
The Committee suggested , therefore , that transport planning should aim at optimum energy conservation . 
In fact , there would be scope for expansion of different modes of transport as needs increased . 
Beyond this , cost-advantage cost advantage lay with the railways . 
It is still the largest industry in the country employing about a million people . 
During the quarter century ending 1975 the mill sector showed some signs of growth . 
The number of mills nearly doubled from 362 to 698 and the number of spindles increased from 11 million to 19.54 million . 
However , there was only a marginal rise in loomage from 1.91 lakh to 2.08 lakh numbers . 
The official policy since the beginning was to encourage the decentralised sector for its employment potential , low capital intensity and short gestation cycle . 
It must not be forgotten that the mills must reckon with the two facts of lifesurplus capacity and competition with the powerlooms . 
The point to be noted is that it is the bigger , modern mills which will be the beneficiaries . 
This is only to be expected as only they can have the ability to supply quality fabrics in an intensely competitive market . 
There has been no significant change in the number of units and their capacity over the years . 
Capacity utilisation has fluctuated in response to availability of raw material , demand , power supply , etc . 
On the whole , however , capacity utilisation has been rather low in recent years . 
During the last ten years , it has varied between 80 and 90 per cent . 
This percentage came down to about 60 in the early seventies . 
The industry faces many problems and its future will depend on how effectively and speedily these are tackled . 
The Indian sugar industry has expanded sgnificantly since 1950 . 
The industry 's expansion has taken place not only in terms of output but also in its regional spread . 
This has lent a broader base to the sugar economy . 
After the 1950s , the industry found a new and more prosperous home in the south and took on a new organisational appearance . 
The policy of developing a cooperative sector in the industrial field has met with some remarkable success in the industry . 
However , the very next year proved to be one of the worst in a decade . 
But the plantings are , in the first instance , governed by the relative prices of substitute crops like rice , wheat and cotton . 
The sugar policy which does not reckon with all these factors is not likely to succeed . 
Extension of cultivation to the peninsula has , therefore , contributed to stabilising output to some extent . 
The merger of uneconomic units was recommended involving a cost of Rs 66 crores . 
However , all this government help was aimed at keeping the yard breathing rather than , putting new life into it . 
The first ever major shipbuilding venture seemed to have started under an ill star even as the country needed a growing building capacity . 
Visakhapatnam was an ideal site . 
But , in the absence of ancillary industries , the shipyard had to manufacture everything itself for its use . 
The machine tool industry had not adequately developed , nor had the motor manufacturing industries . 
Thus shipbuilding was a good example of the difficulties of planting a new industry where the supporting industries were not developed . 
There is a clear case for setting up a national commission on land and water use . 
However , achievement was not always up to the targets set in the Plans . 
The shortfall was particularly substantial in the Third Plan . 
The performance of the industry during the Seventh Plan period was much improved . 
The NEPA unit had originally a capacity of 30COMMA000 tonnes . 
The demand for newsprint was increasing and there was an acute shortage in the country . 
This was expected to continue even after the commissioning of the unit . 
Thus there was scope for further expansion . 
In the meanwhile , the demand for newsprint was increasing . 
During the first three Plan periods the growth rates achieved were rather high and capacity and production moved in tandem . 
This also meant that the new capacities created were taking longer to yield additional output . 
As a result , capacity utilisation declined in later years . 
Capacity utilisation was around 90 per cent during the best part of the First and Second Plan years . 
The Tariff Commission had , from time to time , recommended relaxation of the rigid price and distribution controls . 
The government accepted this recommendation and announced a new price formula for cement . 
This saw the dawn of a new era in the history of the industry . 
In terms of the new policy , a minimum return of 12 per cent on net worth was assured . 
The Sixth Plan provided for expansion of CCI 's capacity to 3.4 million tonnes . 
However , everything was not well with the Corporation and even its projects in hand were slipping . 
Due to constraints of funds the Corporation had to stagger even the ongoing projects , not to speak of starting new ones . 
In the meantime , the track record of the Corporation was deteriorating , production of its units was declining and losses were mounting . 
So the government appointed a committee in 1982 to enquire into its working . 
The Corporation has been a victim of mismanagement , if not gross corruption . 
Rourkela 's contribution , therefore , could be reckoned with only in the Third Plan . 
MEP was however , modified in 1955 , as were the other expansion programs . 
The Third Plan continued the emphasis on rapid industrialisation , with accent on investments on capital goods and producer goods industries . 
In steel the country had by now a nucleus for rapid growth . 
It was expected that these expansion programs would lower the investment per tonne of finished steel from Rs 2COMMA000 to Rs 1COMMA500 . 
But there was no preliminary investigation conducted prior to its inclusion in the Plan . 
The Third Plan was ill starredwhat with two wars and three bad monsoons in five years . 
Bokaro was not off programs were delayed by at least two years , because of the difficulties in tying them up with foreign assistance . 
This was followed by a round of negotiations with the Soviet Union . 
If Bokaro was considerably delayed , there were other proposals all in the private sector which did not materialise for various reasons . 
Among them was the Tatas ' expansion program . 
Thus the steel program was so designed as to create an additional capacity of 3.3 million tonnes over the period of the Fourth Plan . 
However , as it turned out , no fresh capacity could be created between 1969 and 1974 . 
Nor was any progress made on the program of expansion of IISCO . 
Thus both capacity and production of steel remained stagnant during the Fourth Plan period . 
In fact , production performance of the main producers was not at all satisfactory even with the given capacity constraint . 
Of the two mild steel plants proposed , it was only the Vizag plant which was taken up for implementation . 
Consequently the capacity target was 14.5 million tonnes9 .8 million tonnes for the public sector and the rest in the private sector . 
Capacity utilisation improved in the beginning of the Plan owing to improvement in the availability of infrastructure . 
Midway through the Plan , infrastructure constraints , particularly inadequacy of coking coal , affected production adversely . 
A scientific advisory committee has been set up to advise on the initiatives to be taken for concerted technological development in the steel industry . 
The committee would render advice on the development of domestic capabilities , design engineering and research in iron and steel processes . 
But the revival of steel demand in 1970 gave them a big boost . 
The government also encouraged them to expand output through the use of scrap which was otherwise exported . 
As a result , the number of mini steel plants multiplied in the seventies . 
But as many as 121 units were added the next year . 
The company has installed a forge plant to manufacture certain speed and highly profitable types of special steel . 
But production suffered through the rest of the seventies either on account of sluggish demand or power shortage or inadequacy of certain raw materials . 
A modernisation program has , therefore , been undertaken . 
A scheme for balancing and optimisation of facilities is under implementation . 
A comprehensive study was undertaken in 1965 for setting a special steel plant at Salem . 
It was decided in 1970 to go ahead with the implementation of the project . 
The project was designed for a capacity of 2COMMA20COMMA000 tonnes of special steel . 
Aluminium is a versatile metal capable of diverse application . 
At the same time , aluminium manufacturing is extremely energy intensive and power accounts for about 40 per cent of its cost of production . 
The availability and cost of power , therefore , become critical factors governing the economics of aluminium production . 
Considering the small base of the industry on the eve of the era of planning , its progress since would appear phenomenal . 
During the early years , production was less and the demand increased fast . 
It was expected to commence production in 1987 . 
About 41COMMA000 tonnes of capacity was added in the private sector . 
While the capacity achieved at 3.62 lakh tonnes exceeded the target production was only 2.76 . 
The proposal was implemented when , in 1953 , civil aviation was nationalised and two corporations , were set up . 
The immediate problem of the industry was the rehabilitation of overworked and obsolete aircraft and equipment before the expansion programs could be thought of . 
In fact , the dependence on coal relatively increased for a time consequent on the loss of the oil produced in Burma . 
Production increased and prices rose . 
Nor have they been able to absorb any of the technologies imported by them . 
The private sector units are thirty to forty years old . 
Many technological changes have taken place in the interval . 
Many cost of reduction measures are possible , particularly in the downstream areas of rolling , extrusion , and casting of aluminium . 
This expertise needs to be developed in the country on a priority basis . 
Application technology is another area for major R & D effort . 
Substitution in high technology area has not taken place so far . 
Aluminium can substitute scarce materials like wood , copper and brass . 
In the transport sector , light aluminium coaches , wagons , tankers , etc . 
There is considerable scope for use of aluminium in the packaging industry . 
As we have observed , aluminium is extremely energy intensive , and energy is a scarce resource . 
But it is late in the day to open the issue except for future expansion of the industry . 
The construction of the heavy electrical plant at Bhopal was in progress , but its commissioning was delayed . 
However , there was no decline in imports of machinery . 
Industrial development decelerated in the following years . 
Besides , there were specific factors affecting demand for individual products . 
For example , during the Sixth Plan , demand recession affected the growth of production of commercial vehicles , tractors and wagons . 
The progress of the major industrial machinery groups is reviewed below . 
Cement capacity and output have expanded rapidly since 1980 . 
This called for , among other measures , ' electronification ' of not only the industry but also of transport , energy and services . 
The Plan emphasis , was therefore , on development of electronic components and materials . 
Thus the Plan envisaged a major shift in production in favor of control instruments , communication equipment , computers and components . 
The biggest complex originally estimated to cost over Rs 100 crores was taken up for implementation in the public sector at Koyali in Gujarat . 
The Udey unit , which was commissioned in the early seventies was set up with Italian collaboration . 
It was designed to extract 109COMMA000 tonnes per year of catalytically reformed gasolene and to manufacture 33COMMA000 tonnes of benzene . 
The rest is used for the production of polyesters , insecticides , detergents , etc . 
The naphtha cracker and the downstream units were commissioned in 1978 . 
The IPCL complex , now estimated to have cost Rs 400 crores , was inaugurated in March 1979 . 
The commissioning of as many as fourteen production units constituting the complex was unique in many respects . 
It represented the culmination of the collective endeavor of Indian and foreign equipment manufacturers , research organisations and technicians . 
In recent years , the pace of expansion has been further accelerated . 
Fortunately for the country , the prospects for expansion of the industry are fairly encouraging . 
The accent was on competitiveness , productivity and efficiency . 
R & D programs as well as programs for training and technical assistance to the industry needed therefore to be greatly strengthened . 
In the private sector Union Carbide and Indian Explosives were closed down , affecting production of LDPE . 
The old plants suffered because of equipment problems , while power cuts and unstable power supply were problems common to most of the units . 
Schemes of modification of equipment design and captive power generation were therefore undertaken . 
These are the first such plants in the country and the second of this size in the world . 
Though the technology is proven , defects in equipment and imbalances in facilities , caused low capacity utilisation . 
Low quality coal was also responsible for poor capacity utilisation . 
But the progress in this direction was slow . 
The only washeries were the two set up in 1952 by the Tata Iron and Steel Company . 
The turnover , therefore , of high quality research personnel was limited . 
The knowledge of the composition of coal and of the factors that influence its behavior when heated was limited . 
The progress in the discovery of new deposits was also not very satisfactory . 
The Coal Industry Working Party made recommendations on these and other problems facing the industry , and the government accepted them for implementation . 
The general index of industrial production with 1970 as base rose to 149.7 in 1979 . 
Thus , during the nine years of the seventies , industrial production grew by about 50 per cent . 
It marked an improvement over the growth rate recorded during the Fourth Plan period , viz . 
In perspective , the five years of the Third Plan remained the high water mark of industrial growth . 
There was only a nominal recovery during the Fourth Plan . 
The Fifth Plan marked a significant revival of public sector investment . 
There were important sectoral differences in the relative increase in investment from Plan to Plan . 
This was as may be expected because investment allocations by sectors was a major instrument of implementing the Plan strategy . 
The increase in investment in power and transport was also substantial both in total and in public sector . 
There has been systematic upgradation of production technology for other equipment needed by the power sector . 
The manufacture of equipment for 1350 t . 
A strong base has been laid for the rapid development of the electronics industry . '' 
The Plan set a target of 8 per cent growth per annum in industrial production . 
The consumption pattern was changing , showing the increasing importance of industry as a consumer of power . 
Agriculture was yet to emerge as a substantial consumer . 
Thus power development was inadequate and extremely lopsided . 
It would be meaningful to investigate what steps were taken or contemplated by the government of free India to correct these deficiences . 
The damage to man by insects is far outweighed by the good they do . 
Insects appeared on our planet much before there ever was an indication that man would one day stand erect on the ground ! 
They soon dominated the Earth then and created all the essential prerequisite conditions for the appearance of man . 
If in future man does inevitably eliminate all other wild animals , with his ever advancing technology , insects would still dominate the scene . 
The insect giant is over a thousand times the insect dwarf ! 
The colors of insects are as varied as their size . 
Most have bright spots , bands or marks , with beautiful patterns of contrasting colors . 
Some beetles , butterflies and moths are objects of great beauty . 
An Ancient Group The insects are an ancient group of animals . 
Many of our common insects have no doubt popular names . 
Further , popular names naturally differ from place to place and thus add to the confusion . 
Such names do not also indicate real affinities of the different species , so essential for classification and filing of data . 
The dragonflies rest with the wings spread out , but the damselflies fold them back behind when resting . 
Earwigs live mostly underground and feed on roots of plants . 
The female is wingless and male has two pairs of narrow pigmented wings . 
The first tarsal segment is greatly swollen and contains silk glands . 
They are an ancient group , fossils of which occur in geological strata as old as 250COMMA000COMMA000 years . 
Though most lay eggs , some species are viviparous . 
Actually , however , they are not praying , but '' are preying on insects . 
With the toothed forelegs , the mantid waits motionless for the prey to come within approach . 
There was only one refinery , that of the Assam Oil Company at Digboi , with an output of 180COMMA000 gallons a day . 
It could meet only 5 per cent of the country 's requirements . 
The progress in India in this direction was not so spectacular , yet it was unmistakable . 
Uniformity of quality , convenience of storage and handling , less loss of wastage and relative ease of temperature control were some of them . 
Wing beats are brought about by the rapid contractions of muscles in the thorax . 
When the insect is on the ground , the contractions of these muscles move the legs when the insect walks or runs or jumps . 
There are many basic differences between the flight of insects and of birds . 
Most insects are voracious eaters , yet many of them survive prolonged starvation . 
The mayfly feeds only as larva and the adult has no opening for feeding , so that its gut is simply filled with air . 
Although as a class insects do eat almost anything , it is true that every insect has to work very hard for a living ! 
Insects have to actively search for food , gather it laboriously , prepare it carefully and even store it for future use . 
Some go about it in a most casual way and do not mind being thrown out unceremoniously by the irate ' friend ' . 
Now , where are you likely to be treated well , even though you are a perfect stranger ? 
The insect has been wise to this trick long before there ever was an Indian wedding ! 
In the nests of termites , ants and wasps the same conditions prevail , of course for a different reason . 
They do not have the time to notice an unobtrusive intruder . 
She goes underground and starts nursing her first brood of young by feeding them with a special secretion of her own saliva . 
The queen thenceforth concentrates on egg laying and continues to lay eggs for about another fifteen years or so . 
An ant colony usually contains over half a million individuals . 
Ants nests are built underground , on trees , inside hollow tree trunks , thorns , old nuts and fruits and among leaves . 
When the rains come next , the workers bring out the seeds and sow them around their nests . 
After a harvest , the workers neatly pile the unwanted chaff and sticks in a circle around the nest entrance . 
Any foreign fungus that may appear as weed is promptly removed and destroyed by the ants . 
Ants have perfected chemical and gas warfare . 
Many of them like look very much like ants . 
Some crickets serve as grooms and clean the body of ants . 
How does the newly emerged moth or butterfly know that it should fly to a particular flower for nectar ? 
How do wings develop within the pupal skin , filled with unorganized tissues , which are being broken down ? 
Why do moths and butterflies undergo metamorphosis , but bugs do not ? 
They live in a highly lethal environment , in which the chances of survival are not very bright . 
The adult insect is usually capable of moving from place to place , finding its food and avoiding dangers . 
Care of eggs The insect mother does not carelessly scatter her eggs . 
The female aquatic beetle Hydrous builds simple egg rafts of silken threads and bits of leaves of water plants . 
Other water beetles prepare very complicated egg rafts of silken threads , webbing odd bits of leaves . 
The raft is a massive silken boat , closed on all sides and cleverly comouflaged by leaves . 
Work on another pot then begins . 
She builds the nest exactly to the size of her own body , since her children are not likely to be larger than herself . 
The labor involved in the search , selection , gathering , transport and storing of the food for the future young ones is enormous . 
As soon as they are born , they promptly climb to their mother 's back and remain there protected under her wings . 
The young cockroaches leave the mother only after one or two moultings , when they are able to fend for themselves . 
Our common mole cricket Glryllotalpa prepares an underground nursery chamber , in which she deposits her eggs . 
Her solicitude continues until all her eggs have hatched . 
The young larvae now crowd together and crawl under the mother very much like chickens under a hen . 
They disperse in search of food and when fully fed , come back to the mother . 
His wife is aware of his mean and evil ways and so out he goes without even a farewell from her . 
If she does not lick her eggs , they fail to hatch . 
If she is in some way disturbed , she carries her eggs to another place of safety . 
The newly hatched young earwigs are gregarious and always cluster around their mother . 
She even lies on her back and lets her children run over her and have fun for themselves . 
If any larva strays away , she at once seizes it in her mouth and brings it back to the fold . 
Direct feeding of the young by the mother is also known . 
The most remarkable instance is that of the sexton beetle Necrophorus . 
An orthodox biologist will , however , tell us that their activities do not show any mind comparable to that of man . 
Is there no gleam of intelligence in insect behavior ? 
Does not parental care among them acquire an emotional tone at some level ? 
The smaller units needed organised assistance by way of finance , raw materials and marketing facilities . 
The orientation in government policy from protection to development was slow in coming . 
The diesel engine has certainly been a boon to modern industry , agriculture and transport . 
It is more economic and efficient than the steam engine , which it fast displaced . 
Its importance and utility in a country of continental dimensions , and a predominantly agricultural economy like India , can hardly be exaggerated . 
The Cooper Engineering Company and Kirloskar Brothers were the only manufacturing units before the war . 
Now we throw a number of crickets before a female digger wasp , which we had seen was once hunting for them . 
She recognized the prey offered by us , showed great excitement , but refrained from snatching or stinging any of them . 
It looked rather stupid of the wasp not to have accepted our offer of crickets and save herself the trouble of hunting for them . 
But supposing she had done so , she would not have gained anything . 
The wasp must at all costs avoid a frontal attack and jump on the victim from behind . 
The interesting thing in this is that the wasp does all the three things , depending on circumstances ! 
They can recognize new situations and can alter their behavior accordingly . 
It is our common experience that women are governed largely by instincts and are most often right where children are concerned ! 
Although man has done everything to drive them out of their natural homes , insects still successfully hold on to their own . 
The slowing down of development during the winter months is called hibernation and the similar retardation during the host summer is called aestivation . 
This slowing down is a physiological necessity for a normal grasshopper life . 
They are usually colored yellow or green , differently from the adult . 
They feed voraciously , grow rapidly and moult their skin five to seven times . 
The adult grasshoppers turn brown or red . 
Most grasshoppers have a single generation in a year , but others have two of unequal duration . 
Rarely some kinds of grasshoppers pass through several generations in a year . 
There are over a thousand species of grasshoppers in India . 
This breeds in abundance on the milkweed plant Calotropis and though common all over India , is essentially a denizen of semiarid localities . 
Gastrimargus marmoratus is a brilliant orange and black colored species common among grass in the plains . 
Hieroglyphus banian and Oxya velox are generally found on grass , but damage various crops , particularly paddy . 
While sucking sap , they inject along with their saliva various pathogenic agents like plant virus , bacteria , etc . 
Pyrilla sucks sap from sugarcane . 
Idioceus the mangohopper bug that causes damage to mango blossoms belongs here . 
Cicadidae or the cicadas , the famous insect musicians , are placed among the Homoptera . 
They are typically forest insects , but do occur elsewhere also . 
The cicada is remarkable for its prolonged infancy . 
Some males have grotesquely shaped horns , spines and tubercles on various parts of their body . 
Most beetles are swift runners , others dig underground , but many live in bushes and tree trunks . 
The Order Coleoptera is divided into complex suborders , superfamilies and families , which are too numerous to be listed here . 
The iridescent elytra of these beetles are used as inlays in gem work . 
The larvae are long attenuated creatures called wireworms , which feed on the roots of various plants . 
It develops for a whole year or even more before pupating . 
The adult beetles fly during the night and eat into the soft growing point of the palm through the folded fronds . 
When the cocoanut , frond opens out , it presents rugged holes . 
The wasps and hornets belong to the Order Hymenoptera . 
There are many different kinds of them in our country . 
Some of them lead a lonely life , but others are social insects . 
The colony of social wasps consists of queens , workers and drones . 
The honeybees are social insects , but all bees are not social ; there are many solitary bees in India . 
Not all bees gather nectar and produce honey ; but all of them gather and store up pollen grains . 
It is the honey of this species that is gathered by forest personnel and sold in our markets . 
The nectar is partly digested in the gut of the worker bee and also concentrated , with addition of antiseptic preservatives . 
During the process of digestion , the different kinds of sugars present in the nectar are all changed into glucose . 
The honey is then regurgitated in wax cells , which are then sealed by wax caps . 
The bees and their larvae feed on the honey and pollen . 
It is a large shiny black species , the male of which is covered by soft yellow pubescence on the thorax . 
It flies actively back and forth from flower to flower the whole day long and even at night when there is full moon . 
It visits between thirty and forty flowers every minute . 
Our wealth of butterflies and moths is truly great and varied . 
The majority of them are not only harmless , but are also indispensable members of Nature . 
It may even be said that flowers evolved or were created expressly for the special delight and benefit of butterflies and moths . 
Butterflies and moths are at once distinguished from other insects by their large , colourful wings and the long coiled proboscis . 
Silk is really the solidified saliva of the caterpillar . 
On the surface of the pupa we may notice indications of the legs , wings , etc , of the future butterfly . 
Most butterflies are diurnal , and most moths are nocturnal . 
In most butterflies the base of the hind wings is expanded to fit tightly under the fore wings during flight . 
Butterflies There are over 1500 species of butterflies in India . 
The largest of our butterflies is also the most beautiful Troides Helena minos , called the birdwing butterfly . 
The smallest butterfly is Zizeeria trochilus , with a wing span of 12 mm . 
A return flight follows next spring . 
They remain clustered , totally covering the plant , for days together , before becoming scattered some day . 
The common butterflies of India are Hesperids , Danaids , Papilionids , Pierids , Nymphalids , Satyrids and Lycaenids . 
They are generally stout and sombre colored butterflies , with clavate antennae , which are also curiously hooked at the tip . 
The larvae feed mainly on grasses , ginger , turmeric and other related plants . 
Udaspes folius causes some damage to ginger and turmeric crops by devouring the leaves . 
Some of them bear short fleshy tubercles or horns . 
Though mostly black or brown , their beauty is enhanced by varied color markings , with bright red and yellow . 
The caterpillars are never hairy and do not also have fleshy processes or tubercles . 
They generally feed on the leaves of Aristolochia , Umbelliferae , Rutaceae , etc . 
The common Papilionids are Papilio , Plydorus , Graphium , Troides , Chilasa , etc . 
Papilio demoleus is the common lemon butterfly , with a black body and wings , marked with pale yellow bands and spots . 
Later however , it turns into a beautiful green larva with oblique white bands . 
Graphium sarpedon is common in gardens and is easily recognized by its bright blue longitudinal band on both wings . 
It is common on the hills in South India and reappears on Orissa hills , Assam , parts of the eastern Himalaya and Burma . 
What are the special features of the insects which live exclusively with man in his urban homes ? 
It might again be stated that as a class insects are lovers of open air and sunshine and green vegetation . 
They have been so long with man that many of them actually share some of our traits . 
These are unavoidable byproducts of human civilization and technological advance . 
It can only sponge its liquid nutrient from moist surfaces ! 
The original and natural food of the housefly is fermenting vegetable matter and dungs of herbivores . 
The maggots feed on the decomposing matter . 
They are important scavengers which help in the quick disposal of filth . 
The adult flies emerge from these pupae in another three or four days time . 
The adult flies are powerfully attracted to filth accumulating around human settlements and also to all sorts of exposed human food . 
It comes out at night to feed , to meet friends and chirp for sheer joy . 
Depending on the air temperature , the cricket chirps for hours on end in its characteristic manner , so well known to us . 
Like the ubiquitous cockroach , the house cricket has also been widely distributed by man . 
At nightfall it sallies forth to puncture the skin of man and drink his blood . 
When fully gorged , it leaves him in temporary peace , for its place of concealment , leisurely to digest its bloody meal . 
Not the least part of detestability of the bedbug is its peculiar and penetrating stink . 
Production was 11COMMA614 tons in 1941 . 
There was no production of this important chemical before the war . 
The industry could not make much headway during the war because of difficulties of procurement of plant and machinery . 
Production increased after the war . 
The part of the body that is partially submerged in the water is covered by pubescent hairs . 
The divers The divers in our ponds , lakes and tanks include many diverse insects . 
The adult is a delicate insect , incapable of feeding and lives hardly for a few hours . 
Its stomach and intestine are filled with air to increase the general buoyancy of the body during the short nuptial flight . 
The common dragonflies of India are Orthetrum , Gomphus , Libellula and Agrion . 
Aquatic bugs The aquatic bugs live in water both as larvae and as adults . 
They are voracious predators sucking body fluids of many insects or blood of fish , tadpoles and frogs . 
They rise to the surface water for renewing their supply of air for breathing , at regular intervals , after diving . 
They are generally flat and dingy colored bugs with stout hooked forelegs . 
Ranatra is somewhat more slender than Laccotrephes . 
A stream differs from all stagnant waters in that there is a constant flow of the water . 
This flow acts unfavourably on animal movements and locomotion . 
It is a region of atmospheric aridity , with sparse , thorny vegetation . 
In the hot deserts the atmospheric temperatures may rise in the shade to above 50C . 
A locust is essentially a grasshopper that is capable of becoming gregarious and migratory , in regular alternating cycles . 
Locusts are polymorphic grasshoppers that exist in three unstable phases viz . 
The transient phase is a group of individuals between the solitary and gregarious phases . 
Locusts swarm in their gregarious phase . 
Migration precedes the sexual maturity . 
The individuals of the solitary phase show no tendency at all for migration and their eggs develop without diapause . 
There is also no color change of the grasshopper on becoming sexually mature . 
There are many species of locusts in the world ; two species of locusts are of particular interest to India . 
These insects were not even born in India , though they are as truly Indian as any of us are . 
The distribution of the high altitude insects on the Himalaya presents a curious stratification of different species at successively higher elevations . 
At the permanent '' snowline a further abrupt fall occurs and we find hardly a tenth of what is found at the forestline . 
The forestline on the Himalaya is therefore a threshold of the new world that is earthly and at the same time unearthly ! 
They occur on submerged stones under the cascading cold water . 
The adult flies are very delicate midges with long and slender antennae and looking very much like mayflies . 
Unfortunately in our country , every insect that may nibble at a leaf or stray into granaries is promptly condemned as a pest . 
Fortunately only very few species of our insects are pests in the strict sense of the term . 
Locusts naturally head the list of injurious insects . 
The cotton crop is extensively damaged by the bollworm larvae of the moths Earias and Platyedra . 
Useful insects The useful insects provide man with food , clothing , medicines , wax , lac , dyes and numerous other valuable products . 
Many insects and their larvae are eaten with relish in many parts of India and the world . 
Cooked grasshoppers dipped in chocolate are served in many fashionable restaurants in the United States . 
Silk produced by the caterpillars of moths Bombyx , Attacus and other silkmoths is highly valued in India . 
The Ramayana mentions the use of silk . 
Lord Vishnu is described as robed in yellow milk and the Goddess Saraswathi in white silk . 
The factory was ready only in 1950 . 
There was no production at this time of other nitrogenous fertilisers like ammonium nitrate and urea . 
Of the phosphatic fertilisers , superphosphates have been manufactured in India for a long time by treating bones with acid . 
But this was an uneconomical process , particularly when there was a ready dollar market for bones . 
The average annual production before the war was a meager 2COMMA000 tons against a consumption of 10COMMA000 tons . 
To ensure the future growth of the industry , it was of great urgency that steps be taken to augment the supply of sulphur . 
Different kinds of flies serve as excellent baits in fishing . 
Beneficial insects The beneficial insects promote the objectives of man in some way or other . 
Though they are not used by man as food or clothing and medicine , their activities benefit him in a number of ways . 
The beneficial insects are , in effect , our collaborators and comrades . 
Most compositae are butterfly pollinated . 
Acute malnutrition will then eliminate more than half the human race ! 
A second important class of beneficial insects includes the species which feed on various weeds and help keep them in check . 
Every Weed in our field or orchard is attacked by one or more insects ; this prevents the weeds from overcrowding the land . 
A third class of beneficial species are the predators and parasites of insects , which are injurious to man . 
It is a great misfortune for insects and a good fortune for man that the most implacable enemies of insects are insects themselves . 
We can never hope to repay the heavy debt due to the beneficial insects for the inestimable good they are doing to mankind everywhere . 
Not only predatory insects , but also the entomophagous parasitic insects eliminate almost ninety per cent of the population of injurious insects . 
They manage to do this unobtrusively and with minimum cost and maximum efficiency by attacking their eggs , larvae , pupae , etc . 
Most of the accusedthere were in all 46 accused in the case including Naren and Jatin Mukherjee were arrested on 29 January . 
The magisterial inquiry commenced on 4 March . 
The magistrate committed them for trial before a Special Tribunal of the High Court on 20 July . 
The Chief Justice did not think that the evidence produced proved Naren 's involvement . 
Naren 's contact with the revolutionaries in India during his travels in search of arms was maintained through the firm . 
The news , spread like wild fire , to affect the Indian soldiers of the British army also . '' 
A messenger went to Berlin with the proposal that the Germans should deliver the arms to us in a neutral country nearest to India . 
The plan failed because the Germans would not play such a serious game . 
Engaged in that effort , Naren found himself in British custody for one night in the Chinese city of Tientsin . 
The rebels had plenty of arms . 
The transition from nationalism to socialism was a big event in Roy 's political career . 
It was a sharp break with his past nurtured on Bankimchandra and Vivekananda and orthodox Hindu philosophy . 
Roy continued to work for the revolution . 
One was based on the operation of economic forces , while the other was indifferent to them . 
Roy did not travel the whole road to socialism in one step . 
The transition from socialism to communism which was accomplished the following year in Mexico was , however , quick . 
They found a safe harbor in Mexico . 
Roy landed in Mexico without any money and without any friends . 
That letter enabled him to find an entry into the higher ruling circles of Mexico . 
Contacts with officers of the German military machine established in Java enabled him to get hold of large amounts of money . 
In less than a week after his arrival , Roy met two German officers whom he had met earlier in Indonesia . 
Borodin had sewn the jewels in the bottom of two suitcases . 
On the journey he had entrusted the suitcases to an Austrian army officer who was to deliver them to his wife in Chicago . 
Through some mishap , the officer could not discharge his responsibility for about a year . 
That left Borodin stranded in New York which he had to leave soon to escape arrest . 
Thus , he landed in Mexico City without any money and under an assumed name . 
The meeting proved crucial for Roy 's political life . 
He also arranged for the search of the army officer and the suitcases entrusted to him . 
The news of the Russian Revolution had traveled all over the world and electrified the atmosphere in many countries . 
A suggestion was made that an extraordinary conference of the party should be held to convert it into a communist party . 
The conference decided to change the name of the party . 
It became the Communist Party , the first in the world outside Russia . 
On the whole , it was a rich and gratifying experience . 
It is true that before coming here I had begun to feel dissatisfied with ideas and ideals of my earlier life . 
I acquired a new outlook on life ; there was a revolution in my mind a philosophical revolution which knew no finality . 
The fundamental change in the outlook on life enabled me to overcome the emotional attachment to the land of my rebirth . '' 
I no longer believed in political freedom without the content of economic liberation and social justice . 
To Roy , the Journey to Moscow was like a pilgrimage . 
It was decided to make the second congress more representative . 
Roy had to spend over four months in Berlin before arrangements could be made to take him to Moscow . 
The imperial regime of the Kaiser had been overthrown , before Roy reached Berlin . 
After a few months of civil war , terror and anarchy , the Social Democratic Party had placed itself in power . 
A section of the army marched into Berlin and occupied the city . 
The government ran away in panic . 
Prominent amongst them were Bernstein , Kautsky and Hilfierdlng . 
But contact was established soon and he was able to meet all prominent leaders of the Communist Party of Germany . 
The discussions widened Roy 's knowledge and he acquired a firmer grip on communist theory and practice . 
It lasted throughout his life . 
The three remained together Inside the Comintern as well as outside it . 
Roy reached Moscow in the latter half of April 1920 . 
Borodin was there to receive him and arranged for his stay in the same place where he . 
The more mature Lenin knew that they would grow out of joint working with a national revolutionary movement . 
The work that he did regarding the development of communism in India received the full support and endorsement of the Comintern . 
It was , as a matter of fact , impossible to take a final decision once and for all . 
The question depended on the relation of forces and it changed from time to time and was different in different countries . 
The two thesis were quoted frequently in the various phases of the Chinese revolution . 
He was assigned the task of carrying the revolution to the East and more particularly to India . 
He was to open '' the second front of world revolution '' . 
The task was to his liking . 
By this time Roy 's idea of a revolution in India had undergone a complete change . 
No individual was indispensable . 
Until that basic condition was created , no armed uprising should be undertaken because it was sure to fail . 
Social forces antagonistic to the established order must in the first place be politically mobilised and recruited in the army of revolution . 
Only then would arise the question of arming the soldiers ready to fight for liberation . 
Pooling home output with imported sugar did not bring the sale price much lower . 
High cane price made sugar costly , while any reduction in this price brought about a contraction in sugarcane cultivation . 
The number of mills increased from five in 1913 to nine in 1937 . 
Sokolnikov and Safarov , two Russians prominent in the government and the party , were also members of the bureau . 
But as they were busy with other things , the main responsibility of the work of the bureau devolved on Roy . 
Later , the plan had to be dropped owing to lack of cooperation from the Government of Afghanistan . 
Living conditions in Tashkent were very difficult . 
But before fleeing , they had wrought as much destruction as they could . 
It was the former residence of the representative of the Emir of Bokhara . 
But where Roy occupied it , it had no furniture and fixtures except piles and piles of carpets . 
After the revolution the Russian Government had granted independence to the Emir of Bokhara and the Khan of Khiva . 
The main difficulty in the way was the strong religious sentiment of Muslim masses . 
For the purpose , Roy studied the Koran and other religious books of Islam . 
The Emir and the Khan were eventually subdued through military operations and revolution was spread to Bokhara and Khiva , 
On getting the news in Bokhara , Roy sent a detachment of the Red Army for their rescue . 
After rescue they were taken to Bokhara where Roy had talks with them . 
Most of them were religious fanatics who were keen on going to Turkey . 
There were a few who were educated . 
The prospect of military education held out by Roy attracted them and they agreed to go with him to Tashkent . 
They were about fifty . 
In Tashkent , Roy had to make lodging and boarding arrangements for the Muhajirs who went with him . 
The place where they stayed came to be called ' India House ' . 
He had also to open for them a military and political school . 
The Russian officers who went along with the equipment acted as instructors . 
The school had to be closed owing to strong opposition by the British Government . 
The school remained in existence from October 1920 to May 1921 . 
The same fate befell the political school . 
The latter is more significant from the point of view of the communist movement which later developed in India . 
They joined the Communist Party , after their release . 
Another important event which took place in Tashkent was the formation of the Communist Party of India . 
It was formed in October 1920 . 
Roy did not like forming the party outside when there was hardly any communist activity in the country . 
A few were added when it shifted to Moscow . 
All these decisions were taken with the full approval of Roy . 
Roy utilised his time in Moscow for writing his most important book of the period , India in Transition . 
It is the first ever analysis of the Indian situation from the Marxist point of view . 
It was written in English , but was immediately translated into Russian , German and many other languages . 
The book provided exciting food for thought to young men who were groping their way from Gandhism to socialism and communism . 
It had a strong influence on the development of the communist movement in India . 
It was only a part of the big literary project that he had visualised . 
The following year , however , things started positively looking up . 
The government actively stepped in to encourage higher production through incentives and concessions . 
Labour was sought to be placated through a proposal for war bonus . 
The internal conditions , however , were now becoming explosive , with politics getting a militant edge and labor getting restive . 
Roy was the friend , philosopher and guide of the party . 
His idea was to build it up as a people 's party . 
For many years he had hoped that the Congress would take that shape and had worked for bringing about that transformation . 
Roy expected the RDP to play that role . 
The war was the supreme event of the period . 
The fate of the . 
Whoever supported it and worked for its success was a progressive , while others were reactionaries and enemies of progress . 
There were bomb strikes in Madras and Calcutta and there was panic all over the country . 
The Government of India had no adequate plans and arrangements for the country 's defense . 
The Cripps Mission came at this critical time to win over the Congress and the Muslim League . 
The mission failed . 
Roy was deeply pained by this development . 
The defense of the country , Roy stated , was the duty and responsibility of the people . 
He was in Calcutta when the panic was spreading . 
The trade union movement became keener in response to great political upheavals , and there was widespread unrest and agitation . 
The partition of the country left the productive capacity of the industry intact , but it hit the industry badly in two major respects . 
The sellers ' market prevailing for more than a decade and the attendant prosperity were no more . 
The slump , which started in 1952 , first affected finer varieties whose production was increasing . 
IN THE next and last phase of his life Roy moved away from communism and began his journey towards radical humanism . 
He found them in communism 's utter disregard of and contempt for man . 
But it is also used for material embodiments of good taste and refinement . 
So we often refer to the buildings , gardens and paintings of the Mughal period as relics of the Mughal culture . 
It is the same with religion . 
geographical , cultural and linguistic unity and a common history are the characteristics found in most nations . 
But there are countries like Switzerland and Canada which have more than one national language . 
Unity of race , religion , and language or a common history , though most important , are not indispensable . 
The most potent factor of cultural unity , the national language seems to have turned into a dividing force . 
A common history is another strong force which binds the people of India together . 
In the early stages of the evolution of human society race played a very important part as the basis of social and cultural unity . 
To the conflict between the two largest communities in India , the Hindus and the Muslims , is ascribed the division of India . 
No doubt on the level of positive religiondogma , ritual , religious lawthere are considerable differences which could lead to perpetual conflict . 
This atmosphere of religious harmony continued more or less to the end of the last century . 
Many a change in the technical side of production was introduced during these years . 
Such technical transformation in the existing units was much more significant than installation of new machinery or erection of new mills . 
Spinning frames were converted to tape drive and high draft systems almost on a universal scale . 
The use of combers , as also introduction of double carding , increased in the wake of expansion of output of finer yarns . 
The number of spindles spinning yarns from staple fiber , which could be counted in thousands in 1939 , multiplied into lakhs . 
Later , many nomadic and warlike people came to the country and their admixture modified the national temperament considerably . 
Agricultural life and the general geographical conditions , have also played a great part in shaping the political structure and development of the country . 
Obviously , in an agricultural country population is not concentrated in a few cities but is scattered over the villages . 
But on account of certain other circumstances , this democracy remained confined to the local level . 
In course of time much of it was submerged under water by continuous violent storms . 
In one Dravidian community the matriarchal system prevailed and generally mothers were given a high status throughout Dravidian society . 
There was no rigid caste system . 
But later , various classes based partly on birth and partly on occupation developed . 
Trade by land and sea was carried on with the countries of east and west Asia . 
There is evidence of cultural contact between south India and Egypt about 2000 BC . 
The Aryans had not yet completely subdued the aboriginal tribes whom they called the Dasyus and against whom they were engaged in continuous warfare . 
They had brought with them a primitive nomadic culture . 
In India they began to live the settled life of peasants and the various tribes established their little rural democracies . 
Representative bodies of tribal chiefs called the Sabha and the Samiti ruled under the general control of the raja or king . 
Kingship was usually hereditary . 
The main function of the king was to command the army in battle . 
As a result , production of super varieties was increasing though the acreage was falling . 
This was largely due to the ' Grow More Food ' drive of the war years . 
After Partition , India was left with 116.7 million acres . 
During the next few years , it was rapidly extended to over 162 million acres . 
More than this extension , the changes in the pattern of production were important . 
At the same time they began to advance southwards . 
But both the theories are a subject of controversy and have not so far been generally accepted . 
As we have said before , great progress was made during this period in political and economic organization as well as in material civilisation . 
The other was the way of asceticism and meditation which catered to its love of speculation and its urge towards the realisation of truth . 
The former way was followed by the Aryans in the form of simple sacrifices and prayers . 
Both these practices were now combined into an elaborate system of sacrifice and worship . 
Mahadeva seems to have combined the characteristic features of Shiva south Indian deity Pashupati . 
What is the abiding reality behind the changing world of appearance which I see or feel every day in or outside myself ? 
The body is obviously liable to change and decay and possesses none of the characteristics of the atma mentioned above . 
The consciousness in a dream is essentially a series of changing states and can not therefore be the true self . 
This is the final stage of the conception of reality which the human mind can reach . 
No quality can be attributed to it . 
It may be intuitively realised by the mystic but can not be theoretically conceived by the philosopher . 
Thus the Upanishad uses the word ananda to bring Absolute Reality nearer to our comprehension . 
This is the answer to the first fundamental question posed by the Upanishads . 
Now it is easy to answer the second question . 
Here self does not mean the empirical mind entangled in the maze of needs and desires but the red mind or atma . 
A beginning was made in the manufacture of textile machinery in 1940 but the progress of the industry was slow . 
Imports averaged about Rs 10 crores . 
The cost of modernisation was estimated at Rs 300 crores . 
It was particularly against compulsory utilisation of machinery of indigenous manufacture . 
However , improvement in quality , etc . 
Exports , on the other hand , were steadily increasing , particularly of carpets . 
Thus there was a great export potential that the industry could exploit . 
On the manufacturing side , the major problem was to improve the competitive strength of the industry . 
For this , its machinery , though not obsolete , called for modernisation . 
Pakistan , Japan , Brazil and others were establishing jute industry with modern equipment . 
The indigenous production needed improvement in quality and a considerable extension to other items , for which the country had to depend on imports . 
The rearmament boom of the late thirties brought about a sudden revival of the steel manufacturing industry . 
All the three units were contemplating expansion programs which , however , under the exigencies of the war , had to be shelved . 
On the whole , however , the equipment was considerably extended , often in disregard of maintenance and long life . 
But the Company 's efforts to meet all kinds of war needs , with limited production facilities , deserve brief recounting . 
Earlier in 1939 , the Company had successfully made low alloy structural steel for the construction of the Howrah Bridge . 
Statutory control on steel prices was imposed in August 1941 . 
Thus the price ' retained ' by the producers , the ' retention price ' , was different from that charged to consumers . 
The retention price was fixed on the recommendations of the Tariff Board . 
The selling price was fixed by the iron and steel controller , having regard to the demands on the Equalisation Fund for other purposes . 
Imported steel was much more costlier and , therefore , the average equalised prices were higher than the retention prices . 
As a result , we have today a greatly developed and diversified industrial structure . 
These include drugs and pharmaceuticals , petrochemicals , electronics and a large variety of machinery and equipment . 
Simultaneously , some of the existing industries have expanded substantially . 
These industries have expanded considerably since . 
In this chapter , a review of the infrastructure development is undertaken . 
The per capita energy consumption in the country is low and a restrictive energy policy would indeed pose a dilemma for the country . 
Very little is known about the extent of these resources . 
Coal has been the main source of energy in the past . 
Thus coal will play a central role in our energy policy for many years . 
The targets of the First and the Second Plan were substantially achieved . 
The future development of road transport will depend on two opposing forces . 
With sharper focus on road development under the Minimum Roads Programme , the share of road transport may be expected to grow further . 
Enemy bombing made any progress at Visakhapatnam difficult and , for a while , most of the equipment had to be moved to Bombay . 
By 1950 , the yard had built up a capacity of three ships totalling 8COMMA000 tons . 
This was uneconomic and , though the capacity could be raised to eight ships , the company had no funds for expansion . 
The only way to save the yard was for the government to take it over . 
But complications arose over the amount of compensation to be paid to the Scindias . 
In the meanwhile , government proceeded to place orders for building ships with the company to enable it to survive . 
The natural price-advantage price advantage it enjoys is further strengthened by its devalued currency and other incentives . 
The raw jute grown in India , besides being inferior in quality , is subject to wide output fluctuations . 
Raw jute prices are also erratic , leading to ups and downs in the farmer 's income . 
These fluctuations in output and prices have become endemic to the jute economy and feed on each other . 
They are further accentuated by the fact that land can be easily shifted from jute to rice and back . 
India had some 150 factories with an annual rated capacity of 1.5 million tonnes of sugar in 1951 . 
This capacity was considered adequate till 1956 . 
So , retracing the restrictive policy , the government decided to license additional capacity liberally to reach a total capacity of 2 million tonnes . 
Care was taken to use the expansion of the industry for achieving a better regional spread . 
Towards the end of the Second Plan , a further additional capacity of 8.8 lakh tonnes was licensed . 
Sugar beet cultivation may prove profitable in the north . 
It is a short crop with a higher sugar content . 
It yields 3.4 tonnes of sugar per acre as against only 1.75 tonnes from sugarcane . 
The capital expenditure involved in the switchover and the adjustment in machinery to the new process should not be an obstacle . 
Up to 1958 , Indian sugar was cheap in the world market . 
Operational efficiency is low because of obsolete machinery , uneconomic scale of production and wrong location of some of the units . 
As a consequence , the production targets could not be realised . 
After more than a decade of commissioning , the NEPA factory could produce just upto its original capacity of 30COMMA000 tonnes . 
In the meantime it was decided to further expand its capacity to 75COMMA000 tonnes . 
The NEPA Mills produced around 50COMMA000 tonnes a year for best part of the seventies against an installed capacity of 75COMMA000 tonnes . 
The demand was increasing all this while , necessitating increasing imports . 
The cement industry had a chequered career during era of planning . 
The First Plan set a target of 5.3 million tonnes of capacity and 4.8 million tonnes of production . 
The Second Plan set an ambitious capacity target of 16 million tonnes , which was more than three times the First Plan target . 
This meant a shortfall of as much as 6.7 million tonnes or over 40 per cent of the target . 
The production target was 13 million tonnes but the realised output was less than 8 million tonnes . 
This looked a stupendous task . 
The single most serious constraint was power . 
Thus the setting for the Sixth Plan contrasted sharply with the ambitious targets of the Plan . 
The policy of dual pricing and partial decontrol made a spectacular change in the fortunes of the industry . 
As a result , the industry expanded not only in terms of capacity and production but also in terms of its regional dispersal . 
A number of units came up in Maharashtra , Gujarat , Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh , giving the industry greater regional balance . 
However , the official response was neither prompt nor adequate . 
The government was reluctant to revise the retention price lest it increased the cost of public sector projects . 
Soon the Corporation was also given the responsibility of setting up of cement plants in deficit and remote areas . 
Accordingly , during the course of the next decade CCI set up cement plants in 
In 1981 it had a capacity of about 1 million tonnes which was about 4 per cent of total capacity in the country . 
In 1985 their share was 34 per cent , which was still substantial . 
For energy conservation and cost reduction , the process of conversion must be speeded up . 
Secondly , the size structure of the industry must undergo a change in favor of larger capacity units . 
Here too the change over the years is significant , but there is still considerable scope for improvement . 
However , the availability of cement has now dramatically improved , while the concessions have been withdrawn . 
Restructuring of the industry to enable it to face competition is an urgent need . 
Preventive maintenance can save the industry significant loss of output . 
At the same time it is essential to ensure quality control to build consumer confidence and devise marketing strategies to penetrate new markets . 
However , the beginning was modest and growth slow . 
Consumption of steel was almost static during the first half of the century . 
So there was already a deficiency of over 1 million tonnes . 
Thus steel-shortage steel-shortage steel shortage was expected for most part of the fifties . 
And there was no spade work done on the proposed public sector project . 
But there was little awareness of such a need . 
The track costs involved in the prevention of siltation , etc . 
Port and harbor facilities constitute a vital dimension of shipping and water transport . 
Inadequacy of port and clearance facilities was another serious bottleneck from which the shipping industry suffered . 
All the expansion programs were implemented in the early years of the Second Plan . 
The Hindustan Steel Ltd . 
The charge of Bhilai and Durgapur was also transferred to it in 1957 . 
As a consequence , there was a substantial shortfall in the Plan target of production . 
The cost of India 's steel program is much discussed and for very good reasons . 
But against that must be set the savings to the nation . 
Then there was a sudden spurt and imports exceeded 1.7 million tonnes in 1956 . 
Rourkela also worked at 60 to 65 per cent . 
But it was Durgapur 's poor record that greatly lowered the overall efficiency level for HSL plants . 
The Durgapur unit worked at half its capacity for most of the years and at 40 per cent in the worst years . 
It was no better for IISCO , which was once considered a model for the other plants . 
However , there was no immediate recovery . 
In contrast , TISCO had a fairly satisfactory record , though in later years it had its modest share of problems . 
These plants employed over 2 lakh persons , HSL alone accounting for over 1.15 lakhs . 
It was observed earlier that no fresh steel capacity was added during the Fourth Plan period . 
There was an initial delay of nine months in starting civil works on account of the drought conditions in Bihar . 
This provided an opportunity to our equipment manufacturers to develop expertise for the fabrication of many sophisticated items . 
In the second stage of expansion its indigenous content was projected to be near 100 per cent . 
Technological improvements would also be made for improved productivity and production at the existing plants . 
All this was made possible by greater availability of inputs , better industrial relations and improved discipline . 
Capacity utilisation exceeded 90 per cent during the year . 
It exceeded 7.6 million tonnes though mainly on account of a higher share of 9 lakh tonnes contributed by the mini steel plants . 
Demand was sluggish but the drastic fall in output created conditions of scarcity . 
This was later updated by CEDB of HSL . 
Lack of proper market intelligence on the part of the producers resulted in the mismatch of production and demand . 
As a result ; the production of steel in the public sector declined and was below the target . 
Sizable imports were therefore resorted to . 
The next year , it improved the profits to Rs 39 crores . 
However , there was not much progress in respect of detailed project engineering . 
The Plan also indicated the possibility of setting up sponge iron plants based on gaseous reduction considering the availability of natural gas . 
The Seventh Plan envisaged that the first plant based on indigenous technology would go into production in the early part of the Plan period . 
The future development of the mini steel industry will depend on the availability of sponge iron . 
However , in view of the unstable nature of production , the proposal for expansion was kept in abeyance . 
The project was scheduled to be completed in December 1984 . 
The project cost too escalated to Rs 106 crores . 
Among the heavy and basic machinery sectors , the most important are mining machinery , metallurgical equipment , heavy electrical equipment and construction machinery . 
However , it will be necessary to create capacities for jumbo drills , suspension gears , continuous miners , load haul dumpers , etc . 
The main problems of the industries are need for adequate orders giving enough lead time , technological upgradation and development of new products . 
In the oil sector , a variety of equipment , fabricated structurals and other items are required . 
The country at present depends on import for most of the sophisticated equipment . 
A systematic program with proper policy support will be required to encourage and develop indigenous capability . 
This industry supplies the machinery required for the development of such basic metals as steel and aluminium which constitute the sinews of industrialisation . 
In a sense , HEC is the symbol of the present state of the industry . 
The technology for metallurgical equipment has , however , remained ten to fifteen years behind the times . 
This will call for considerable cooperation from the equipment manufacturers , which in turn , would require sizeable technological import . 
Capacity utilisation has been just about 50 per cent . 
This has necessitated diversification of production by BHEL and other power equipment manufacturers . 
Textile machinery industry is one of the oldest engineering industries in the country . 
Over the years the industry has expanded not only in capacity and output but also in range , quality and sophistication . 
There is adequate capacity in the country for supply of sugar machinery . 
The machinery manufacturers are capable of supplying , setting up and commissioning plants for a capacity upto 6COMMA000 TCD . 
The world has witnessed the electronics revolution . 
Electronics are permeating every field of human activity and hold the key to modernisation . 
They have tremendous potential for improving the standard of living and quality of life of the people . 
There is great scope for expansion to meet both domestic and export demand . 
The industry continued to expand in the seventies . 
Thus , the output of electronics consistently exceeded the targets set by the Bhabha Committee . 
The growth somewhat slowed down in 1978 and 1979 . 
Production was up by 16 per cent in 1978 to Rs 591 crores and by 11 per cent in 1979 reaching Rs 605 crores . 
In the beginning , the raw materials of the primary organic chemicals were vegetable products like molasses . 
They include plastics , synthetic fibres , synthetic rubber , drugs , dyestuffs , paints and varnishes , detergents and pesticides . 
But the prospects for exports were rather uncertain , particularly when the home demand was increasing and foreign competition was growing . 
The industry continued to face the same old problems , some of which were accentuated by the war and the Partition . 
The number of larger mines also was simultaneously increasing , and the new mines were opting for mechanisation . 
The estimates of coking coal reserves were speculative , but there was no doubt that the reserves were inadequate . 
The first naphtha cracker in the country was installed at Union Carbide India Ltd . 
It started its operations in 1967 but was completed in all respects ' in early 1969 . 
The naphtha cracker plant commenced working in 1968 and the solvents plant and the ethylene oxide plant soon after . 
The aromatic project has been built with the assistance of the erstwhile West German firm , Field Fried Krupp . 
The production of synthetic rubber was meanwhile to rise from 30COMMA400 tonnes to 45COMMA000 tonnes and of DMT from 28COMMA000 tonnes to 56COMMA000 tonnes . 
The output targets were based on the existing capacities as the new projects were not expected to go on stream during the Plan period . 
The aromatic recovery project of Bharat Petroleum Corporation and polyester staple fiber project at Bongaigaon spilled over to the Seventh Plan . 
In the private sector , capacities were added for DMT , PFY and other synthetic fibers . 
Fortunately the recent sugar seasons have been good and there has been , in fact , a surplus of molasses . 
It is essential to create proper storage facilities and ensure a steady supply of molasses to the alcohol industry . 
The heavy organic chemicals industry in the country is now well established with adequate capacity and production . 
Inorganic chemical industries , viz . 
There is need only to import some carbon black . 
With the improvement in irrigation facilities , which made intensive cropping possible , the pace of fertiliser consumption was accelerated . 
The use of fertiliser was also discouraged by immediate causes such as adverse weather conditions and lack of adequate power , irrigation and credit . 
But , given adequate supply of fertilisers , these factors are manageable . 
One of our major failures has been in respect of implementation of the fertiliser production program . 
On the face of it , it would appear that the growth of the fertiliser industry has been impressive . 
Correspondingly , production increased from around 10COMMA000 tonnes to more than 67 lakh tonnes . 
Moreover , surplus naphtha was not available . 
The rest were in the private joint sector . 
It was only after the country attained freedom that the scheme was reviewed and the result was the Chittaranjan Works . 
Equipped with the latest machines , tools and appliances , the factory had a capacity of 120 locomotives and fifty spare boilers per year . 
Already the number of different types of locomotives in use had declined from 500 in 1925 to 377 in 1952 . 
This works out to a compound growth rate of 5.5 per cent per annum . 
Within this aggregate picture , the rate of growth in the Third Plan was high at 9 per cent per annum . 
The three Annual Plans witnessed a general deceleration in the rates of growth of all the sectors . 
During the next five years there was a general recovery , but once again it was not uniform in all the sectors . 
However , its base was narrow at the beginning and the weightage attached to it was less than 0.5 per cent . 
On the other hand , electricity had both a higher weight of 5.37 and a significant growth rate of around 10 per cent . 
Power generation nearly quadrupled over the period of the study . 
Heavy inorganic chemicals and cement are also important in this group , though their weights were small . 
The iron and steel industries recorded an impressive growth of a little over 13 per cent in the first half of the sixties . 
Among the major industries included in this group are railroad equipment with a weight of 3.50 and motor vehicles with a weight of 2.51 . 
The railroad equipment industry showed impressive growth during the Third Plan period when it grew at the rate of 21 per cent per year . 
It grew at the rate of 9 per cent during the first five years . 
But the growth rate declined and became negative in the next three years to recover to 2.9 per cent in the following five years . 
The electricity generation industry may be rightly regarded as the forerunner of the industrial revolution . 
No wonder the growth of electricity is taken as an important index of economic progress . 
Coal was cheap and readily available . 
Power development in the country till about the twenties was so insignificant that the subsequent progress looks impressive . 
But in absolute terms , the overall growth remained modest till the beginning of the fifties . 
It is also evident that the major industries in this group were either stagnant or registered only a very small rate of growth . 
Thus the index for this industry was only 30.5 per cent higher at the end of the period . 
The growth record of another major industry in this group , viz . 
This was yet another industry which emerged worse at the end of the period than at the beginning . 
Tyres and tubes registered a high growth rate exceeding 9 per cent . 
Their growth rate was high and steady and was a little faster in the sixties . 
Thus it will be seen that industries with significant weights had a growth performance which was below average . 
It was not possible to establish exact correspondence between the two sets of industries relevant for the two weighting patterns . 
However , the change from one to the other is quite evident . 
Electricity also gained significantly whose weight went up from 5 . 
Having surveyed in perspective the industrial scene since 1960 , we may now look closely into the events since 1970 . 
The new index of industrial production with base 1970 now replaced the old series with 1960 base . 
Cotton textiles , vanaspati , sugar , tea , and paper remained depressed . 
Iron and steel , electricity , mining and quarrying , arid most kinds of machinery had substantial recovery . 
Similarly , coal with a weight of little over 6 per cent had a growth rate of only 3.7 per cent per year . 
Another important industry , cotton spinning , continued to be depressed with a growth rate of only 2.1 per cent per year . 
Jute textiles also grew at the nominal rate of 1 per cent . 
The paper and paper products industry also had a poor growth rate . 
One such industry , cement , can not be considered to have grown at a satisfactory rate . 
Then there was a sudden spurt in 1976 when industrial production increased by 10.1 per cent . 
However in 1979 the growth rate slumped to 1.3 per cent . 
In 1975 they grew by 1.5 per cent . 
The growth rate improved to 5.8 per cent in the following year but declined to 2.3 per cent in 1977 . 
There was a sudden spurt in 1978 when these industries expanded by 8.4 per cent . 
However , the total investment as well as public investment slackened from the mid sixties . 
During the three Annual Plans as well as the Fourth Plan this situation changed significantly . 
These two sectors were no longer the leading sectors of the economy . 
As a result , the industrial growth slowed down considerably . 
The step up in total real investment declined substantially in the Third Plan and further in the three Annual Plans . 
The decline in the growth rate of real investment in the public sector was even steeper . 
This may be partly explained by the big spurt in the Second Plan over a base level which was very modest . 
It would appear that these sectors suffered during the next decade more than the other sectors of the economy . 
Particularly during the Fourth Plan , public sector investment in all these sectors declined even in absolute terms . 
But the thrust was once again sought to be restored by the Fifth Plan with substantial step up in real investment in these sectors . 
Within industry it was oriented in favor of basic and capital goods . 
The details of investment from Plan to Plan in individual industries or groups of industries are not available . 
Another basic industry which received a great impetus in the Second and Third Plans was heavy and light engineering . 
Petroleum refining and fertilisers came up in a big way in the public sector only after the Third Plan . 
If the basic objectives and priorities did not change materially , the regulatory apparatus built over the years came under an increasingly rigorous scrutiny . 
Official thinking was veering round to the position that various controls like industrial licencing quotas , etc . 
The objective conditions had undergone significant change , warranting new initiatives . 
The economy had gained in maturity , resilience and sophistication . 
Direct physical controls were only stifling the spontaneity and initiative for growth . 
Considerable growth was achieved since 1950 , but not much thought could be spared for quality , cost competitiveness or needs of modernisation . 
It may also be added that the Sixth Plan growth rate was lower than that achieved in the Fifth Plan , viz . 
This can be seen from Table 14.2 . 
Another marvel of the insect anatomy is its respiration . 
The air is carried directly to the interior of every cell that needs it by a system of delicate branching tubes called tracheae . 
This fact accounts for the astonishing powers of endurance and muscular strength of insects . 
How numerous are insects ? 
Over a million and a half species of insects have already been named and described by scientists . 
Competent authorities have estimated that this stupendous number represents only a small fraction of the total number of species still awaiting discovery by man . 
How are insects named and classified ? 
In dealing with such an unimaginable wealth of species , some system of classification is absolutely essential . 
Many hornets and solitary wasps locate a prey , which may be a spider or a cricket lying safely concealed in its underground den . 
Its forelegs are long and powerful and are armed with stout and sharply pointed spines and teeth . 
When folded , the fore legs form a most formidable vice , escape from which is impossible . 
The great urgency and importance of exploring new reserves of oil and of their exploration were thus evident . 
Therefore , the steps taken for setting up an organization equipped with technical personnel and tools for exploration were slow and tardy . 
Another dimension of the program of oil production was the proposal to manufacture synthetic oil from coal . 
Depending on the air temperature , the cricket goes on chirping for hours and hours . 
The music of the cicada is perhaps the highest development of sound production in insects . 
The rapid contractions of these muscles set up the membrane in vibration and thus produce the characteristic cicada music . 
Courtship and reproduction The sexual life of insects is as full of marvels as the other aspects of their behavior . 
Like most other higher animals , there are two sexes , the proportions of males and females being usually equal . 
In some insects , however , there are more females than males and in certain rare cases there are no males at all . 
Usually however the two sexes differ in size , color and other body features , so that the sex dimorphism is very pronounced . 
The female insect is usually larger , with better developed sense organs and also lives longer than the male . 
Others crawl in pairs into a suitable shelter , such as under a stone . 
Still others mate among leaves , bushes , grass , etc , or even on the open ground . 
At the end of mating , the males usually get exhausted and die within a few hours . 
It can also face its enemies and can generally take good care of itself . 
The eggs and the larvae are , on the other hand , mostly helpless . 
Considering the colossal hazards , it is indeed a marvel that insects successfully reproduce and survive at all . 
Most insects are , however , orphans at birth . 
Their father having died soon after his marriage and the widowed mother following him after depositing the eggs . 
Every conceivable material is pressed into service in making the ootheca . 
Three or four pieces are first joined together into an outer envelope , directly lining the interior of the nest cavity . 
The brood nest of the solitary wasp Trypoxylon is a partitioned clay tube , about 10 cm long and 1 cm wide . 
The common mason wasp Eumenes is perhaps the most familiar of our brood nesters . 
What is most remarkable is that the gum is all only on the outside and is never carried inside the pot ! 
By the time the newly emerged young wasp break through out of her pot , the gum is already dry . 
How are constant patterns achieved ? 
How does the female solve so many architectural problems , without previous experience or training ? 
She works strictly according to a definite pattern , of which she has a clear Figure . 
She pushes her body fully extended into the cell or pot , in order to estimate the height of the construction . 
The Miltogramma mother actually presses into her service her deadliest enemy to provide for the welfare of her children ! 
You can not beat that for sheer audacity . 
Their family life stretches even beyond the emergence of the adult offspring . 
On finding a cadaver , the beetle starts digging the grave , first scraping off a little mud from below it . 
After the eggs are laid , she plugs the hole of the burial chamber . 
When the young larvae hatch , the mother climbs over the decomposing cadaver and starts feeding on the flesh . 
Now the young larvae leave the egg chambers , reach the main burial chamber and crowd round the mother . 
A glistening drop of brown liquid of predigested meat extract is regurgitated by the mother into the eager mouth of the larva . 
She even makes a faint scraping noise with her legs as a signal to the children that feeding time is on . 
He performs his duties alone unwillingly and is a ' grumbling ' father . 
The poor fellow rarely , if ever , rebels against his wife . 
She remains in the nest till the young larva hatches . 
His willing cooperation saves the mother a great deal of energy and time . 
Although the mother is capable of doing everything herself , the male is anxious to contribute his mite . 
She digs the nursery chamber and he guards it . 
They live and labor in monogamous bliss till death separates them . 
Foster parents We have so far discussed the solicitude of insects for their offspring . 
Think of the numerous ways in which they make provision for the food of their future offspring . 
Even the father , generally irresponsible , occasionally looks after the nursery . 
Maternal solicitude among insects is associated with habits , social life and intelligence . 
Was he right ? 
Some years ago we found a mud wasp Eumenes building her nest in a room . 
We removed the paralyzed caterpillars from her brood nest as fast as she brought them in . 
She took no notice at first and continued to bring in more caterpillars and push them into the empty cell . 
By nightfall we had robbed her of five caterpillars , a number more than sufficient for at least two nests . 
Next morning she brought more caterpillars , but again we removed them . 
Now she began to show signs of worry . 
She made calls to her cells at frequent intervals , without bringing caterpillars , and merely for inspection . 
Having done that , her instinct should have been satisfied and she should have then closed the cell , even though it remained empty . 
She was , however , persistent in bringing more and more caterpillars . 
How would we react if a cosmic influence , out of fun of testing our mental ability , subjected us to one such experiment ? 
We found , however , that fault lay with the experiment and not the bee . 
To our surprise , we found that one morning the wasp had broken down all the three barriers and had made its escape . 
The bee or the wasp is normally accustomed to mud partitions and paper is something wholly outside their experience . 
How can we find fault with them if they fail to recognize it ? 
Want of appreciation of this important fact often leads to much misapprehension ; our experimental psychology is not entirely free from this drawback . 
The reason for this peculiar behavior is not difficult to seek . 
This breeds in abundance on the milkweed plant Calotropis and though common all over India , is essentially a denizen of semiarid localities . 
Gastrimargus marmoratus is a brilliant orange and black colored species common among grass in the plains . 
Hieroglyphus banian and Oxya velox are generally found on grass , but damage various crops , particularly paddy . 
The hungry bug first selects a suitable spot , with the help of the highly sensitive tip of the rostrum . 
A few are indeed objects of great beauty . 
Nepa holds the prey by the forelegs and sucks its blood . 
We have already mentioned the habit of the male carrying the eggs . 
Some are degenerated into permanent , sessile parasites on various plants and have lost all traces of wings and powers of locomotion . 
They suck large quantities of sap and then concentrate it in their body by exuding the excess of water . 
The plant may suffer heavy loss of sap and may even wither away . 
They occur gregariously on beans , grass , mustard , radish , cotton , rose and other plants . 
They are always attended by a large number of ants , which regularly milk them for the sweet honeydew they secrete . 
Aphids normally reproduce as virgins , because there are no males among them for several generations . 
The mother aphid does not lay eggs , but is viviparous and gives birth to young aphids . 
In captivity , it has been observed to gobble up one to two hundred grasshoppers daily . 
Both the fumes and the liquid are highly caustic and raise blisters on human skin . 
If disturbed , they dive promptly under the surface , carrying a glistening bubble of air . 
The Asiatic Porrhorrhynchus is a giant whirligig , measuring about 15 mm long ; but most species of Gyrinus are hardly 3 mm long . 
Paussid beetles live in nests of ants and give them an aromatic secretion , which they love to feed on . 
Ceratoderus , Platyrrhopalus , etc are common in our country . 
One of our prettiest beetles is the ladybird beetle of the family Coccinellidae . 
Their larvae are bright yellow and curiously spiny and occur on leaves . 
The firefly is the much smaller and winged male . 
The glowworm is about 3 cm long , flattened and conspicuously plated , with an oval white patch below on the eighth abdominal segment . 
This patch is the luminous organ , which emits light at the will of the insect . 
It feeds on soft snails , consuming about half a dozen daily . 
While thus feeding , it shuts off its light . 
The larva , hatching from the egg , tunnels into the soft tissues and makes a cocoon of the cocoanut fibers before pupating . 
The damage is often very severe . 
The largest and the most remarkabld of our weevils is Cyrtotrachelus longimanus . 
In the male of this species the fore legs are very long and even longer than the rest of the body . 
This weevil feeds on the juices of tender bamboo shoots , its larva tunnels inside a bamboo tree . 
Unlike most other insects it does not lay hundreds or thousands of eggs , but merely one two . 
However , its highly developed maternal and paternal solicitude protects its progeny . 
The adult scarab is attracted from a distance to the freshly dropped dung of herbivore by its strong sense of smell . 
The ball is then pushed on the ground backward , by the hind legs , the beetle itself moving backwards at the same time . 
Sometimes two beetles may be seen moving a ball together , one pushing it backward and the other dragging it . 
The larva , however , breeds in manure pits and in other decaying vegetable matter . 
Wasps and hornets The mention of wasps and hornets brings to our mind memories of painful stings and angry buzzing of vicious insects . 
However , molest one of them ever so slightly , and hundreds of them will at once attack you and inflict painful stings . 
In many respects , they differ from all other insects with which we have so far dealt . 
Both are polymorphic and their colonies contain numerous individuals of imperfect females or workers , perfect females or queens and also males . 
Owing to their apparent ferocity and the virulence of their stings , they have not been properly studied in India . 
The wasps feed on caterpillars , praying mantids , bugs , grasshoppers , beetles , dead snakes and other meat . 
They are also extremely fond of fruit juices , candy , sugar , etc . 
The real problem of the industry was prospecting for new deposits of copperore as the known reserves were assessed at only 34 lakh tons . 
While there was no mining at all of tin and nickel ores , that of lead and zinc was insignificant . 
It was with utmost importance and urgency that detailed prospecting was undertaken to estimate accurately known mineral deposits and to discover new ones . 
While the prospects of a viable copper industry were good , those of lead and zinc were extremely uncertain . 
While discovery of new deposits was providential , human ingenuity could make God 's gifts go a long way . 
The commonest Lycaenid butterfly is Euchrysops cnejus that occurs throughout India , Burma and Sri Lanka . 
It frequents various garden flowers and has a liking for drinking water from damp places . 
The apollo butterflies also occur in Europe , northern Asia , North America and in the Arctic areas . 
The caterpillars breed on palms and on bamboo leaves and the adults are attracted to toddy and other fermenting objects . 
Neptis is the common sailor that flutters close to the ground . 
Some moths are only too familiar to us ; they actually occur in our homes ! 
Other moths , though breeding on outdoor plants , regularly visit us at night , attracted by bright white lights . 
Some of them are also armed with fleshy horns behind . 
The large plump green caterpillar feeds on leaves of sesamum and beans . 
Their caterpillars feed on the leaves of diverse plants and the pupae are generally found in soil . 
During some warm and oppressive nights before an imminent rainfall , it takes to the wing and flies out in swarms . 
In temperate and cold countries , the cockroach avoids flight altogether . 
The cockroach lays about two dozen eggs inside an ootheca , curiously resembling a gladstonebag . 
Blatta orientalis is somewhat smaller , but has similar habits . 
They also mechanically contaminate articles of human food with pathogens of various diseases . 
Occasionally a cockroach may nibble the tender skin or hairs on the head of a sleeping baby and cause painful sores . 
Cockroaches have numerous enemies , primarily moles , lizards and birds . 
They are heavily parasitized by many parasites , especially Protozoa , worms and insects . 
These waters are densely populated by a most diversified and extremely interesting class of aquatic insects . 
Some of these are rather complex and concern locomotion in water and breathing when submerged . 
All aquatic insects have solved them efficiently in many different ways . 
The majority of them swim with the help of their hind legs , which have become specialized to function as oars . 
They have developed special organs for trapping the atmospheric air and for carrying this supply in their body even under water . 
Most other aquatic insects breathe by means of gills , by utilizing the air dissolved in the water , more or less like fishes . 
They are thus independent of the atmospheric air . 
However , quite unlike the gills of the fish , the gills of the aquatic insects actually contain fresh air and not blood . 
The oxygen dissolved in the water is taken in by osmosis in exchange for the carbon dioxide of the blood . 
A large number of insects are semiaquatic and live habitually at the water 's edge on banks of ponds , lakes and rivers . 
Periodically they ! 
The caddisworm presents some of the most intriguing problems in habits , instinct , adaptation and animal distribution and animal psychology . 
It lives inside this cabin permanently and what is even more interesting , carries the cabin wherever it goes . 
Its tail end has a powerful hook , by means of which the larva adheres itself to the inside of its cabin . 
As it grows in size , it enlarges its case . 
The larva swims by the lashing movements of the slender abdomen . 
Some larvae are cannibalistic and attack the smaller larvae . 
The pupa also swims by the paddling action of tail fins . 
The locust has normally two generations in a year . 
There is a marked periodicity in the development of this locust . 
Their ancestry is not at all Indian ! 
The streams fed by the melting snow and ice are inhabited by the larvae of mayflies , stoneflies , caddisflies and dipterous flies . 
The common Himalayan mayflies are Baetis and the stoneflies belong to Nemura , Capnia , etc . 
By 1950 the railways had succeeded in overcoming the serious bottlenecks in their working . 
Punctuality and utilisation of rolling stock improved considerably . 
These various schemes of construction , replacement and improvement cost the railways a heavy sum . 
The larva of the codling moth damages apples . 
Tenebrio , Silvanus , Corcyra , Sitotroga , etc . 
The problem of crop damage by injurious insects is thus rather complex in our country . 
Diseases of vegetables , crops , fruits , etc . 
Until recently the lac dye was used for cloth dyeing in our country . 
The manna mentioned in the Bible , is the dried and solidified honeydew secreted by the bug Trabutina , living on the tamarisk tree . 
The aquatic larvae of mayflies and even the mosquitoes are useful as food of many valued edible fishes . 
The short tongued honeybees can not reach the nectaries at the bottom of the long corolla and are thus effectively discouraged . 
The fact is that American agriculture is a thing of yesterday , when compared to Indian agriculture . 
India has been cultivated for at least seven thousand years , if not more . 
The settler in America took with them to the new country many of the Old World crops . 
The crops introduced there soon attracted the attention of native American insects , which spread and became ' pests ' rapidly . 
When the Old World plants and their insects went to America , the predators and parasites were left behind and denied entry in America . 
The ' pests ' is thus a creation of modern man 's folly . 
It is these beneficial insects which have labored to maintain the equilibrium undisturbed . 
How then can you blame the insects if as a result of the death of the beneficial species , the equilibrium is upset ? 
Our twofold crime consists in unilaterally abrogating the pact with insects and subjecting even our friendly insects to the methods of modern scientific agriculture . 
There is another widespread popular misconception in India . 
We seem to think that if there were no insects , we could grow more food than at present . 
When all is said and done , man is a debtor to insects . 
In truth , both are equally successful and lead to the same result . 
He must have read a number of Sanskrit treatises on philosophy and logic . 
As a matter of fact , the partition could be said to be the British Government 's clumsy answer to the ferment . 
It had hoped to contain the ferment by partitioning the troublesome province . 
But the result was exactly the opposite . 
It is difficult to say when he actually joined it , but it must be some time in 1904 . 
He and Hail Kumar Chakravarty became members of the Samity together . '' 
It was after a year or so that they must have met Jadugopal Mukherjee . 
Naren and Hari Kumar were sent to Orissa for famine relief work . 
Their work was satisfactory and they were admitted into the inner circle after their return to Calcutta . 
Naren helped Barin Ghosh in looking after the daily and is reported to h ve written some articles for the newspaper . 
It fell into the hands of the police after which he was arrested . 
Bullets and bombs were the main instruments of the revolutionaries . 
About a year earlier , Naren committed the first political dacoity in the province . 
The dacoity was committed at the Chingripota Railway Station on 6 December 1907 . 
In the couple of years that followed , Naren committed everal political dacolties but little definite information is available about them . 
One about which a little information Is available Is the dacoity at Netra , near Diamond Harbour In the district of 24 Parganas . 
It was committed on 25 April 1909 . 
It was a plan of armed insurrection . 
For some time he became a sanyosi . 
As a sanyasi it was easier to move about without arousing the suspicion of the police . 
Some revolutionary leaders had become sanyasis and some of Naren 's colleagues thought that he was following in their footsteps . 
His constant search for holy men might have strengthened their suspicion . 
During those days Naren visited places like Banaras , Allahabad , Agra and Mathura . 
In about a year or so a united organization was established with branches and contacts in Bengal and outside . 
After his release from jail , Naren took up employment also as a coveras agent of the ' India Equitable Assurance Company ' . 
It was decided to organise an armed insurrection and Jatin Mukherjee was elected the supreme leader of the united party . 
Jatin Mukherjee was in those days staying outside Calcutta and working as a contractor . 
There were already two such establishments in Calcutta , 
A few days later a meeting was held in Banaras to discuss the plan of the insurrection . 
It was in March 1915 that the revolutionaries received intimation that Germany was willing to send arms . 
Along with the intimation came the suggestion to send a representative to Batavia to discuss details . 
The revolutionaries were elated by the prospect of getting arms . 
NAREN left India for Java in April 1915 in search of arms . 
Moreover , the average recovery was declining and , at less than 10 per cent , it was very unsatisfactory . 
Here again , the main producing provinces of UP and Bihar had figures even lower than the country 's average . 
The Indian Central Sugarcane Committee launched in 1948 programs for improvement in yield and was doing useful work . 
But its pace was too slow to make a dent in the problem . 
It was being realised that the locational aspect of the industry 's development was badly neglected . 
With this idea in view , they decided to hold up the three main railways into Bengal by blowing up the principal bridges . 
It was decided to send him in order to discuss fresh plans with the Germans which included arrangement for overland transport of arms . 
After Naren 's departure , a disaster befell his party resulting in the fieroic death of his leader , Jatindranath Mukherjee . 
Naren 's suggestion was that the Chinese rebels should pass on some of those arms to Indian revolutionaries across the border . 
The German Ambassador sent Naren on to the New World on his way to Berlin . 
He therefore advised Naren to proceed to Berlin and place his plan before ' the Supreme War Lord and his General Staff ' . 
Admiral von Hintze was then the German Ambassador in China . 
The plan was approved and Roy was asked to go to China to pursue it . 
Roy was not keen on going , but he agreed to go by ' force of habit ' . 
Later the plan fell through as the Japanese steamer by which Roy was to go failed to arrive . 
He then returned to Mexico City and then began to look around for the political work that he wanted to do . 
The contact with the German officers helped Roy in two ways . 
In the first few years of his career in the Communist International , there was recognition of this financial help received from Roy . 
The controversy thus went on from time to time and no final decision was reached until Stalin liquidated the Comintern in 1943 . 
The second congress established Roy 's position in the Comintern . 
He Went to Moscow as an ordinary delegate . 
That was an enviable position to attain and it went on improving from year to year until it received a sudden jolt in 1928 . 
At the end of the congress , Roy would have been elected to the Executive Committee of the Comintern . 
He declined the honor as he was to go East after the congress , '' perhaps never to return '' . 
The development of the industry during the First Plan period was significant , and was as envisaged in the Plan . 
Based on sal wood and bamboo , the NEPA mills ' product did not compare favourably with imported paper made of conventional raw materials . 
The industry had three major problems to tackle . 
First , it still did not meet the country 's need of paper , particularly of certain finer varieties and of newsprint . 
Roy had a big hand in drafting the thesis that was adopted by ECCI at its meeting in Moscow in November 1926 . 
The Comintern and the Russian Government had been taking keen interest in developments in China for a long time . 
The expedition petered out in the end and paved the way for reconciliation between the two wings of the Kuomintang . 
In his speeches on the issue , Roy showed a remarkable grasp of the military , political and social situation in the country . 
In some places the peasants took possession of the lands they were cultivating for the landlords . 
In other places they drove away the landlords . 
Roy disagreed with all these theoretical and policy formulations and expressed his dissent against them in clear and unambiguous terms . 
A meeting of the plenum of the ECCI was held in Moscow in February 1928 to discuss the Chinese problem . 
Roy thought that it would give him an opportunity to put forward his point of view . 
He fell ill with a serious ailment of the ear while the meeting was going on . 
It is surmised that it was done with the help of Bukharin . 
But for the flight , Roy might have been one of the innumerable victims of Stalin 's anger . 
What was more important was the new line that was adopted . 
All these directives , political and trade union , were unrealistic and disruptive . 
They drove the communists into the wilderness and reduced them to the position of a small sect . 
Members of the CPGB who had expressed dissent were forced to capitulate and a year later a new leadership was imposed . 
The idea was to secure the acceptance of the manifesto by rank and file Congressmen and by youth leaguers and others . 
Roy followed in the middle of December 1930 . 
He got down from a ship in Karachi on December 11 and then made his way to Bombay . 
The British police had kept a watch on his activities in Europe . 
The Indian police were intimated and they began to look for him all over the country . 
He knew that he would have to spend a few years in jail . 
His friends in Germany did not like that prospect and tried their best to dissuade him from undertaking the hazard . 
Roy was able to avoid arrest for about seven months . 
He was arrested In Bombay on 21 July 1931 . 
In Bombay , Roy was going about then under the name of Dr Mahmood . 
The Roy Group consisted of young , enthusiastic workers in the Congress and the trade union and youth movements . 
They acquired that name because they accepted Roy 's program and were influenced by his personality and achievements . 
To counteract this development , it sent in 1930 to 1932 a number of agents . 
Even then the communists were not able to make any headway . 
They were then called ' official communists ' to distinguish them from Royists who were also called_ZZZ0 communists . 
When Roy returned , the Civil Disobedience Movement was already on the decline . 
The Roy Group tried to stop the decline through agitation and propaganda amongst Congressmen on the lines of the Roy manifesto . 
It set up for the purpose organizations like Youth Leagues , Nayjawan Bharat Sabhas and Independence of India Committees . 
Roy was opposed to the pact and , at his suggestion , an amendment was moved at the session demanding its rejection . 
One Royist , Taiyab Shaikh , made a spirited speech in support of the amendment , but it did not receive any support . 
Later , Gandhiji attended the Round Table Conference as the sole representative of the Congress . 
Owing to fall in the prices of agricultural commodities , the peasants were in distress . 
They found it difficult to pay rents to landlords . 
Owing to the efforts of Jawaharlal Nehru and others , the Congress had spread into the villages . 
He moved about then in khadi clothes and was known by the name of Banerji . 
The trade union movement was in disarray when Roy arrived . 
The other hurdle was his blunt opposition to the Gandhian program and leadership . 
In spite of these hurdles , he achieved a good deal even though he was constantly hunted by the police . 
At last the police caught up with him and , as stated earlier , he was arrested in Bombay on 21 July 1931 . 
He was immediately taken to Kanpur to stand trial for his part in the Kanpur Communist Conspiracy . 
His trial took place in Jail as the government was anxious to avoid public demonstrations . 
It was later reduced in appeal to six years ' imprisonment . 
Imperialism had at last succeeded in imprisoning its biggest foe whom it had been hunting since 1915 . 
Roy was in jail and incapable , it thought , of doing any further ' mischief at least for the next few years . 
He established contact with the outside world within a week or two of his imprisonment . 
Roy utilised the contact for sending out letters , manifestos , articles and even manuscripts of a couple of books . 
China in Revolt published under the pen name S . 
It was republished in 1941 in Roy 's name as My Experiences in China . 
The defense statement that he was not allowed to make was similarly taken out and published as My Defence . 
It is on record that he sent a couple of letters to Jawaharlal Nehru , A few others are also noted . 
He obeyed all rules ; he did his allotted work without fail . 
But he had decided from the beginning not to obey one rule , the rule not to maintain any contact with the outside world . 
He wrote that letter to his friend and colleague . 
They were published in 1941 as Letters from Jail . 
Life in jail shattered Roy 's health . 
The most oppressive was the summer heat . 
' The next year he was taken to Dehra Dun when the weather became hot and kept there until his release . 
Roy suffered from dilation of heart and pain in the chest and slow fever from time to time . 
After conviction he was B class . 
For the writing he was supplied one bound notebook at a time with pages numbered and authenticated . 
A new notebook would be supplied only after the first one was deposited . 
This was most unsatisfactory for carrying on any serious study . 
Despite this difficulty , Roy filled with his writing nine such notebooks of about a thousand pages each . 
A good part of what he wrote was published later as books . 
It consists of Roy 's writings on philosophical consequences of modern science . 
The arrest of Roy did not kill the Roy Group . 
It continued and developed both in the political and trade union fields . 
Yet , by the end of 1934 , Roy 's new followers had shown excellent results . 
The ATTUC was gradually reassuming the former position as leader and organiser of the trade union movement in the country . '' 
He inspired and guided his followers even from jail . 
The progress of the communist movement in India in subsequent years has shown how right were the tactics that Roy advocated . '' 
Roy kept himself remarkably well informed about the political situation in the country and abroad . 
Many changes had taken place during his period of imprisonment . 
On release he did not have to ask , as usual , time for considering the situation . 
He jumped into the arena without any hesitation to continue the political work which prison walls had failed to stop . 
After release , Roy was taken to the residence of Khurshid Lal , chairman of the municipality , and prominent Congress leader . 
He was very happy to meet them . 
The representatives of the press were eager to meet Roy and know from him his immediate plan and program . 
I shall place before the nationalist movement a clear program of democratic revolution , accompanied with a concrete plan of action . 
That is the only way towards a more effective struggle against imperialism . 
Those engaged in the struggle must know exactly what they are fighting for . 
We can not go very far with propaganda and agitation . 
Political consciousness of the masses should be developed . 
This spell of prosperity did not last long . 
Conditions were becoming increasingly unfavourable to the industry as the war appeared to draw to a close . 
Controls had their effect , albeit delayed , on prices . 
Wages were rising as they were linked , in most centres , to the cost of living . 
The prices of other inputs like coal , oil , cotton , etc . 
British masters would be replaced by German or Japanese masters . 
What Roy foretold came true , but was not at that time believed by the nationalists . 
It was fomented by the CSP , the CP . 
The government was suspicious not only of the Congress but also of others like the Radicals who offered unconditional support to the war . 
The experience of history is that atomised individual voters can not make democracy prevail . 
Organised democracy will eliminate the difficulties of holding elections in a vast country . 
It makes combination of the legislative and executive functions of the State possible . 
The separation of these two functions has invariably vitiated democratic practice and reduced sovereignty of the people to a mere formality . '' 
Only on the basis of such a relation can a really democratic Constitution be operated . '' 
This draft presents a picture of that New India . '' 
Man created society in order to be able to wage successfully his struggle for existence . 
In those days it was not possible for them to trace the relationship of man to nature . 
Modern science has removed that difficulty . 
Humanism can now go to the root and that is why Roy has called his humanism ' Radical Humanism ' . 
The journey towards radical humanism was not an easy journey . 
Roy had t6 discard many ideas that he had accepted as true during the communist phase of his life . 
The journey was like an adventure in the field of Ideas . 
There were no signposts and no guides on the way . 
There are two points in his later political thinking which deserve special mention . 
One is his insistence on partyless politics . 
Parties , Roy pointed out , indulge in a scramble for power as nothing can be done , they believe , without capturing power . 
Capture of power , then , becomes their sole aim and any means are resorted to attain that aim . 
In the absence of a party , the practice of delegation of power disappears and also the constitutional sanction for the concentration of power . 
Heavily absorbed in this literary work and also the work of developing the Radical Humanist movement , Roy needed some rest . 
He went for rest to Mussoorie in June 1952 . 
They used to go out as usual for their morning walk . 
He sustained grave injuries and had to be in bed for several weeks . 
But in August there was another attack of cerebral thrombosis . 
So civilisation is not always an ally but sometimes an enemy of culture . 
History shows us many instances in which an old degenerate civilisation had to be weeded out so that true culture could thrive anew . 
Nationhood as a political concept is not quite new ; but it has acquired a new significance in modern Europe . 
Policies to promote exports were clearly called for . 
Exports , responding to these measures , rose to 703 million yards in 1953 . 
The excise duty of 10 per cent on medium cloth was also withdrawn , so that its offtake might improve . 
The changes in the production structure of the industry , which were marked during the thirties , became more pronounced in later years . 
India was passing through such a period before the national movement heralded a new age . 
It showed itself at its worst at the time of elections for the local and higher legislative bodies . 
Class , party , nation , country and in some cases , even religion , counted for nothing . 
Along with race , religion also had a bad name as a dividing force . 
Once this point is cleared up , there is no doubt that India is fully capable of achieving lasting national unity . 
All that physical and historical forces could do to create the necessary preconditions for such a unity has been done . 
What is now required is a conscious effort to promote the forces of unity and to put down those of division and disunity . 
The price of unity , like that of liberty , is eternal watchfulness . 
The majorities in truly democratic countries which hold ruling power as a sacred trust have always to be on the alert . 
Obviously it is not possible to do justice to this problem in this book . 
It requires a separate book . 
Philosophers and historians subscribe to some form of the one or the other or make an attempt to harmonise them . 
Ideas , theories and beliefs are not bound to any particular locality . 
In some years parts of the country receive no rainfall at all . 
That is why , from time immemorial , agriculture has been the main occupation of the people in India . 
We meet manifestations of this spirit throughout the history of Indian culture . 
This was not so in the warmer countries and consequently economic urges have played a comparatively smaller role in the evolution of Indian culture . 
The influence of climate and economic resources on the material aspects of culture , e . 
This direct effect of the physical environment on the development of their physique is fairly obvious . 
But its indirect effect on their temperament and character , on their mental , social and moral life is not so apparent . 
This culture is believed to have reached its zenith about 3000 BC . 
So we can rightly say that India has maintained a more or less advanced cultural life since its emergence 5000 years ago . 
No other country except China affords an example of a civilisation continuing without a break for such a long time . 
Even now there are strong reasons to believe that the Indus Valley culture was in its last phase closely associated with the Dravidian . 
We will find later that the Dravidians made an important contribution to the national culture of India . 
The most prominent member of the first sangam was Agastya who wrote the first Tamil grammar called Agathiam . 
There is a legend that he was an Aryan preacher from the north who had come to south India to propagate the Vedic religion . 
His twelve disciples wrote a large number of treatises on grammar , literature , music , dance , etc . 
One of these treatises Tolkappiam , written about 1000 BC is still extant . 
Dravidians had their own script , numerals and calendar . 
The Rig Veda is not only a holy scripture of Hinduism but also the earliest document of Indian history . 
Most historians think that the hymns of the Rig Veda were composed between 1500 BC and 1000 BC . 
So it is called the period of Vedic culture . 
Later , social distinctions became more pronounced and rigid . 
That is to say the father was regarded as the head of the heritage passed from father to son . 
Sheep and goats were also kept and horses were used for drawing war chariots . 
Fields were manured and irrigated in various ways . 
But the remarkable thing is that though there was so much economic progress there is no mention of metal coins in the Vedic literature . 
The greatest progress in this age centred round religious and philosophical thought as seen in the Upanishads . 
There is no evidence to show that writing was common in those days . 
As we have said before , religion in this period developed in two directions . 
Among minor gods the Dravidian Nagaraja and some others were also included in the pantheon . 
The latter way , which the Aryan mind adopted in the peculiar Indian environment specially conducive to meditation , was quite new . 
But they conceive of God as the spirit pervading the universe . 
They have tried to give their own Unitarian interpretation of the belief in many gods and to sacrifices offered to them . 
This was the first idea of Unitism which the Indian mind put before the world 3000 years ago . 
Since then to the time of Hegel , philosophical and religious thought has done a great deal of hairsplitting on the subject . 
Most of the uneconomic units were located in West Bengal and Madras . 
The handloom sector had its own problems as also those in common with the organised mill industry . 
The handloom sector , too , which had been languishing for decades , received a fresh breath of air after Independence . 
The case in its favor was conceded by all , but the solution of its problem was neither easy nor quick . 
This was of course a freak and , as should have been expected , the next year exports were back to their old level . 
This shows that the increase in export earnings was only partly due to higher exports in kind . 
The increasing level of exports before Partition was made possible by an increasing supply of raw jute . 
Imports from Pakistan , though never adequate or stable , were totally suspended , following the devaluation of the Indian rupee in September 1949 . 
This could be explained by the almost indiscriminate extension of the area under cultivation . 
Dependence on imports from Pakistan , though now greatly reduced , was still considerable . 
It was not the need for imports but their uncertainty which was the cause for concern . 
Exports of raw jute , which were once substantial , were almost entirely eliminated after Partition . 
The industry 's capacity as well as output did not show any marked improvement over these years . 
In 1955 there were more than 72COMMA000 looms . 
However , the growth of roads seemed slower in relation to the transport needs represented by the number of vehicles . 
But in this case information is even more meager and unreliable . 
The statistics of road mileage for earlier years too are not quite authentic . 
This was altogether a new line of production , untried so far in the country . 
This was how the ' Tatanagar ' , the armored carrier manufactured by the Company for the government , came to be perfected . 
The Tatas ' jnventive genius was again in evidence later , when they successfully developed quality mint die steel . 
Imports of such steel became impossible as the war progressed , and the result was a shortage of small coins . 
The Research and Control Laboratory at Jamshedpur had these and many other developments to its credit during the war years . 
The alloy steel with the greatest strategic value , viz . 
This plant was a forerunner of the manufacture in the country of locomotives , coaches and wagons . 
The partition of the country , fortunately , did not affect the industry at all . 
A large part of the profits was ploughed back to support expansion in production , continuous innovations and new lines of production . 
For comparison , the data for the previous five years is also reproduced . 
In either case , the question of ensuring a ' fair price ' to industry was involved directly or indirectly . 
In the beginning , the controls were imposed through informal negotiations between government and the Tata Steel Company . 
The assembling capacity for cars and trucks before the war was less than 30COMMA000 annually . 
But production was only 6COMMA588 cars and 8COMMA016 trucks in 1950 . 
Following the recommendations of the Tariff Commission , steps were taken in the early fifties for the progressive manufacture of automobiles in the country . 
from 128COMMA750 in 1940 to 178 COMMA299 in 1950 and further to 333COMMA329 in 1953 . 
About half of them were private cars . 
The automobile ancillary industries were somewhat slow in coming up . 
Thermal power , which dominated before 1960 , lost ground in subsequent years as major hydel projects were commissioned . 
But in recent years the pace of expanson of hydel power has slowed down . 
Moreover , hydel projects have long gestation periods . 
Power generation based on coal is , therefore , an obvious option before the nation . 
They were expected to generate cheaper power , having the advantages of economy of scale and favourable location . 
A number of super thermal stations such as at Singrauli , Korba , Farakka , Ramagundam , Neyveli , etc . 
The oil arid petroleum industry must be considered a ' discovery ' of the planning era . 
The exploration of oil resources received special attention in the Second Plan . 
Exploration carried out with Canadian technical assistance under the Colombo Plan had not borne fruit . 
The prospects of finding oil in the country looked dim . 
Bombay High gave new hope to the country 's oil industry . 
The Guwahati and Barauni refineries were the first to be commissioned . 
The Koyali refinery was established in the Third Plan and the Kochin refinery thereafter . 
The refinery at Madras was completed in the Fourth Plan and the capacities of old refineries expanded . 
As a result , the refining capacity went up from 16 million tonnes to 21 million tonnes at the end of the Plan . 
In the transport infrastructure of the economy , the railway system has been playing and will continue to play a key role . 
In addition to this general objective , the railway expansion program has been oriented to meet specific developmental problems encountered from time to time . 
The early fifties saw the emergence of a unit each for the manufacture of cylinder liners , piston rings , pistons and sparking plugs . 
Over half the fleet was more than twenty years old . 
India 's share in coastal trade before the war was only 33 per cent . 
It increased to 53 per cent in 1948 and further to 75 per cent in 1949 . 
The Plan provided , therefore , for investment to improve productivity rather than for expansion of the network . 
It was expected that better utilisation of the existing capacity and modernisation would meet the projected traffic demand in the Plan . 
New lines were provided only when '' they were justified by operational considerations or new industrial projects . 
The rapidly expanding commerce , trade and industry made heavy demands on railways , especially during the first three Plan periods . 
The railways were under strain , particularly because they had no time for rehabilitation and replacement to meet the new demands made on them . 
They could not take the traffic offered . 
Overcrowding and outstanding registrations kept increasing . 
In the eighties severe infrastructural constraints developed including those in railway transport . 
Wagons were not available in time or in required numbers even for priority movement of coal , fertilisers or cement . 
As a result , some of this traffic had to be handled by road , resulting in undue cost to the economy . 
This is an indication of the magnitude of the problem of opening rural India to modern civilisation . 
In the meantime , more and heavier vehicles have started plying , making road conditions worse . 
Road transport has come to play a predominant role in the economy 's infrastructure . 
The expanding earnings were an indication of the more intensive use of the available railway facilities . 
The partition of the country only further accentuated these problems . 
The Assam railway was cut off from the rest of the railway network and construction of a new rail link became an urgent necessity . 
The result was high cost of maintenance and repairs , engine failures and general operational inefficiency . 
Some 1COMMA000 locomotives were ordered from abroad to retrieve the position . 
The demand had been voiced from time to time in the later years , but there was no response from the authorities . 
It ranked first in the world in spindle capacity , third in yarn production and export of textiles and fourth in cotton consumption . 
As a consequence , there has been phenomenal expansion in the decentralised sector , particularly , the powerloom sector . 
On the contrary , there has been mushrooming of powerlooms mostly unauthorised . 
Powerlooms would be compulsorily registered and would be subjected to all the rules and laws to which the mills were subject . 
But then what happens to the other objectives of textile policy , like provision of quality cloth to the masses at reasonable prices ? 
The textile policy has no answers to these questions . 
Cotton accounts for over half the cost of production of cloth . 
The fluctuations in the output of cotton have an important bearing on availability and price . 
The world commodity boom brought about a spurt in international demand and world sugar prices spurted . 
Even though the country exported as much as 5.8 lakh tonnes that year , the earnings amounted to only Rs 148 crores . 
To deal with the situation , the government announced a package of relief measures . 
However , with no better prospects of exports in sight and no significant increase in offtake internally , sugar prices came under great pressure . 
The government announced its intention to build a buffer stock of 5 lakh tonnes . 
Another related aspect is the regulation of the khandsari and gur industry . 
Sugarcane cultivation is also encroaching on land under other crops , like paddy . 
Cultural paper consisting of writing and printing variety constituted nearly 60 per cent of the total production . 
Industrial paper comprising wrapping and packing paper constituted 20 per cent . 
Paperboard accounted for about 16 per cent , the balance being made up by miscellaneous varieties . 
In fact , consumption had to be kept down through restrictions on imports . 
A joint sector project in Karnataka with a capacity of 75COMMA000 tonnes was also under implementation . 
There was no justification for regulation of the industry when cement was freely available . 
However , the government took the attitude of wait and watch . 
There is enormous potential demand for housing , roads and other construction . 
The rural market has been by and large neglected . 
Marketing poses a serious challenge to the industry . 
Cost and quality become crucial as availability improves . 
The public sector plants were particularly plagued by one ailment or the other . 
If it was not labor trouble , there were breakdowns due to power cut , poor condition of the coke ovens or faulty equipment . 
Bhilai was an exception registering over 75 per cent utilisation . 
Passenger mileage flown by the Indian Airlines in 1948 was about 178 million , which was 1.35 per cent of the total world traffic . 
Freight carried by air in the same year was 262.5 million long miles . 
India 's share in the world air services constituted only 1.2 per cent of the total . 
By the end of 1949 , as many as nine companies had been granted licences to operate internal air services . 
Phosphatic fertilisers have not become as popular as nitrogenous fertilisers because the results of their application are not as impressive . 
From the national point of view , the constraint on increasing the production of phosphatic fertilisers is the limited availability of raw materials . 
For balanced application , it is essential to encourage the use of phosphatic and potassic fertilisers along with nitrogenous fertilisers . 
Plants at Gorakhpur , Sindri , Barauni , Namrup and Durgapur were set in the sixties or earlier . 
It was a pioneering effort and in the nature of things , there were many shortcomings in the design of equipment . 
In spite of subsequent modifications , the inherent defects could not be overcome and the operations of the plant could not be significantly improved . 
The initial mistakes apart , the country has built expertise for technology , process design and equipment supply . 
Indian consultants have been associated with fertiliser projects from the beginning . 
Indigenous consultancy agencies have also been starved of funds for R & D work . 
This implied a compound rate of growth of 7 per cent as compared to 3.3 per cent for the preceding half century . 
The expansion of the basic and producer goods industries in the Third Plan was even more pronounced than in the past five years . 
This index number greatly reduced the importance of the old industries and accorded the new ones their proper place . 
The next two years were admittedly bad . 
The recession hit both textile and food industries on the one hand , and metal and machinery industries on the other . 
This was a serious loss . 
The new index number of industrial production with 1970 as base was adopted in 1973 . 
The general index of industrial production recorded an increase of over 100 per cent between 1961 and 1973 . 
However , the weight given to the industry , though higher in the new index than before , was not substantial . 
The output of agricultural tractors grew at a high rate of 15 per cent , but this industry too enjoyed insignificant weightage . 
This was even more true of organic chemicals , which grew at the rate of nearly 6.7 per cent per year . 
Cycles and motorcycles continued to grow at a fast growth rate of 8.8 per cent but they too had a small weightage . 
Electricity was the only exception which with a substantial weight , grew at a fairly rapid rate of 7.6 per cent . 
The iron and steel industry with a weight slightly exceeding 7 per cent had a growth rate of 4.2 per cent per year . 
Petroleum refining , cotton spinning , cables and wires , railway locomotives , continued to have low growth in both the Plans . 
As a result , the existing series underestimated the true growth of the industrial sector . 
From time immemorial our Rishis and poets have admired the wealth and beauty of the vegetation that lends enchantment to the Indian landscape . 
We could neither raise a single crop or fruit nor make our clothing . 
Yet the astonishing fact is that for all his proud achievements , in final analysis , he is inexorably indebted to insects . 
They were fully winged creatures , but flew rather clumsily . 
Compared to insects , man , who came , perhaps a quarter of a million years ago , is a very young upstart . 
Where do they occur ? 
There is indeed not a single square centimetre on the Earth 's surface where one or another kind of insect is not found . 
During the decade following the war , the indigenous production of crude remained unchanged at around 65 million gallons . 
Needs in the meanwhile were increasing , thus making the country 's dependence on imports greater . 
Imports averaged Rs 75 crores and more during the early fifties . 
The female lays her eggs in water and dies soon afterward . 
The adult stonefly does not feed ; all the feeding having already been done Curing the prolonged childhood . 
is what these insects are . 
Extremely slow moving insects , not easily noticed in the bush ; they never rush about a feign death at the slightest disturbance . 
Though apparently aimless , all their movements and actions are most deliberate and purposeful and they never give up . 
The entire anatomy of the insect body is moulded for this single activity flight . 
Perhaps the earliest animals on the Earth which can fly the insects have the simplest and the most efficient flight mechanism in the world . 
The wings are their organs of flight , but the whole body is intricately involved in flight . 
The insect wing is essentially the expanded side lobes of the skeletal plates of the thorax . 
They are generally longer than wide , narrow at the tip and are attached to the body by a narrow base . 
The front margin of the wing is nearly straight and hind margin is rounded , in conformity with aerodynamic principles . 
As a result of these complicated , but truly swift movements , the tip of the wings appears to describe a series of loops . 
The insect in flight literally hangs in mid air ! 
The frequency of wing beats often exceeds one thousand times a second in Hymenoptera and Diptera . 
There are , however , no beggars ! 
Unfortunately it is only too true that the worst enemies of insects are insects themselves ! 
Nearly every species of insect is hunted and devoured by some other species . 
The hunting technique of different species varies according to the nature and size of the prey and local conditions . 
Nearly all the predatory insects strike with lightning speed . 
Some predators locate their prey and pursue it by scent and others , especially the winged one , by sight . 
They can easily perceive even slight movements in the field of their vision . 
While a prey remains fairly safe from attack as long as it remains motionless , yet its slightest movement instantly seals its fate . 
While some hunters actively chase the prey , others lie patiently in wait for some luckless victim that chance may bring within their grasp . 
Dragonflies are perhaps the most powerful winged hunters . 
The struggling victim is then calmly devoured bit by bit , till it is entirely consumed . 
The wily antlion takes mean advantage of the habits of ants . 
You need not of course worry about how your ' friend ' feels about you . 
A number of insects do just this and they have actually refined this art ! 
The insect society is extremely complex and highly organized . 
The inequality is also on a much higher level than in man . 
Human society is not a single family and there is nothing therefore so binding on its individuals as in an insect society . 
We will read about this further on . 
The queen termite and the king belong to the reproductive castes . 
She lives up to fifteen or even fifty years . 
She never comes out of the colony and can only be observed by digging down into a termite mound . 
At the end of swarming and flying about , they drop down to the ground and break off their wings and mate . 
In Nature honeybees build their combs on branches of trees , in the hollow of tree trunks or from overhanging rock . 
All ants are social and no solitary species exists . 
No ant can survive alone by itself far away from its colony . 
The social life of the ant is far more complicated than that of bees or termites and presents many unsolved problems for the naturalist . 
The size and polymorphism of the ant colony are extremely variable ; polymorphism indeed attains its maximum development and complexity among ants . 
Finally there are parasites on ants , like nematode worms , mites , other insects , etc . 
Insect musicians Insects produce various kinds of sounds . 
Humming and buzzing , with which we are so familiar , are actually passive events of wing beats in flying . 
Crickets are perhaps the most familiar of a stridulating insect . 
Who has not heard their cheerful chirping in the kitchen or the pantry ? 
From a fertilized egg develops a wingless female that reproduces parthenogenetically for several generations , the numerous progeny being wingless females . 
Then appear both females and males , again by parthenogenetic reproduction . 
These females and males now migrate to another food plant , mate there and the mated females deposit fertilized eggs . 
There is in some viviparous insects a well developed uterus , from which the young insect derives its nourishment during its uterine development . 
The brood nests protect both eggs and larvae . 
Sometimes even a small store of the larval food is laid by the female . 
The female beetle lives at the bottom of the tunnel and cuts out oval chambers all around her retreat for the eggs . 
She uses the main gallery as a shelter for larvae that hatch . 
The high cost of synthetic oil was , however , the restraining factor . 
But it was found that technology was fast changing and that new factors had to be taken into account . 
These mechanical and electrical industries were individually small , and did not even collectively add much to the industrial structure . 
Some species of Osmia and another bee Deuterogenia show a partiality for old snail shells as places for establishing the brood nest . 
She stamps and smoothens the walls and packs everything in expertly . 
When finally the tunnel appears to be satisfactory , she proceeds to lay eggs . 
The building material may be readily available close at hand or it may have to be brought from a great distance . 
The wasps Sceliphron , Rhynchium and Eumenes boldly build their brood nests in our rooms . 
The female wasp brings pellets of moist clay from over a distance of a kilometre . 
Cantao ocellata and Tectacoris are two common Indian bugs that brood over their eggs , completely hiding them from all prying eyes . 
The solicitude of the mother extends even to the newly hatched larvae . 
The chrysomlid beetle Phytodecta lays about fifty eggs on leaves and stands guard over them . 
The mother does not go even for her own food . 
Many insect mothers go to the extent of always carrying their precious eggs with them . 
Even among the cockroaches this peculiar maternal solicitude is known . 
A remarkable South Indian aquatic cockroach is viviparous and gives birth to a number of young cockroaches . 
The latter stopped production during the war because of the difficulties in getting components ; they resumed working in 1946 . 
The output rose from 14COMMA333 pumps in 1949 to 47 COMMA989 in 1951 . 
The country had no capacity to manufacture agricultural tractors of which the imports averaged Rs 4 to 5 crores a year . 
Fond of open country and sunshine they are strongly attracted by showy flowers . 
It remains concealed inside a nest of silken webbing and folded leaf blade . 
The butterfly is well known for its migrations . 
Though eminently a butterfly of the forest , it is fairly common even in open areas . 
They are generally bright tawny , with transverse lines of black spots above and silvery spots below and stripes underneath . 
Argynnis hyperbius occurs in Sri lanka , South India , the Himalaya and north Burma . 
The adults flutter rather jerkily , close to the ground and can not be said to be conspicuous as flower visitors . 
They are generally attracted to toddy , rotting fruits and other fermenting objects . 
Mycalesis , Lethe , Maniola , Erebia and Melanitis are the common satyrid butterflies of India . 
Lastly , to call a housefly monumentally stupid sets the seal on our own ignorance . 
The housefly has enough brains and special senses to emerge successful under the most challenging conditions of life . 
It does not have to go to a university to learn how to do all these things . 
How does it do it ? 
Is it a halfroll or an inside loop in mid air ? 
If you are an aeroplane pilot , try to figure it out ; it is still an unsolved mystery . 
Its safety depends wholly on its alertness , its acuteness of vision , its ability to be off like streak of lightning . 
We have heard many incredible stories about the marvellous capacity of the wily bedbug . 
A bedbug can survive hunger and starvation for three to six months . 
They can even suck the blood from the body of other older bugs , which are already gorged with human blood . 
As they grow up , the young ones moult five times and finally they become sexually mature adults in about eight weeks . 
The male dies soon afterward and the female seeks the water to deposit her eggs and then she also dies . 
At its tip it is toothed and sharply hooked . 
This modified lower jaw is called as ' fangmask and serves as a trap for capturing the prey . 
Retracting the mask , with the victim impaled in the hooks , the larva eats its meal at leisure . 
The larva breathes by means of gills , which also serve as tails and as rudders in locomotion . 
The larva swims forward with a sudden jerk , using the jet propulsion mechanism of forcibly ejecting the water from the anus . 
Generally however it sucks the blood of fish , tadpole or frog . 
Sphaerodema , a common bug of ponds , is remarkable for the male carrying the eggs on his back till they hatch . ' 
Aquatic beetles The Dythcids and Hydrophilids are our important aquatic beetles . 
Imports met all our needs before the war . 
The first ammonium sulphate production was begun in Mysore in 1938 . 
This plant had , however , only a small capacity of 6COMMA600 tons per year . 
FACT had to its credit the distinction of evolving a process for the manufacture of ammonia from locally available wood . 
The demand was , however , estimated at 500COMMA000 tons of nitrogenous fertilisers . 
But the importance of such a project took time to dawn on the authorities . 
The snow fields and glaciers are regular feeding ground for these insects . 
The insect life at high elevations is also remarkable for the pronounced predominance of wingless and flightless forms . 
Many of them either lack wings or have greatly reduced and useless wings or even if they have wings , they rarely ever fly . 
In the cold world of incessant wind , flight is not only difficult , but also unnecessary . 
They are only of academic interest to the few to whom we refer as Nature lovers . 
Even the specialists in the agricultural , forest and veterinary departments have not seen them nor do they know much about them . 
These insects lead their lonely lives , quitely contributing to the general balance in Nature and die unsung without leaving a trace . 
Where are they to be found ? 
The damage caused by insects to agriculture , industry , animal husbandry and public health is not , however , always considerable . 
The moth is thus killed even before it has had time to attack the crop . 
The effect of the release of parasites in the field lasts for some time before it becomes necessary again to make a second release . 
Both conservation and introduction are strictly in the nature of external interference and disturbance of the stability of an ecosystem . 
The Indian cultivator and the Indian insects adjusted themselves to each other and established a more or less stable and dynamic equilibrium in Nature , 
into which all other animals fitted themselves . 
The cultivator rigidly followed traditionally tested crops and practices and the insects always saw to it that he had his bumper crop harvest . 
If man starved occasionally in India , the fault was not of the insects . 
MANAVENDRANATH or M . 
It was assumed years later when he desired to close one chapter of his life and open a new one . 
Dinabandhu left the village and took a job as a Sanskrit teacher in the village of Arbelia . 
Later Dinabandhu shifted to Chingripota , a village in the same district about 12 miles south of Calcutta . 
Narendranath was brought up and educated at Chingripota which also became the scene of his first action as a militant nationalist . 
Little precise information is available about the school that he attended and the progress that he made there . 
It appears , however , that he passed the entrance examination and enlisted himself as a student in the National College in Calcutta . 
They formed together a group which has played a big role in the social and political development of modern Bengal . 
In his early years , Narendranath must have absorbed a good deal of Sanskrit learning from his father , elder brother and others . 
Table 7.7 summarises the progress of production of sugar between 1939 and 1956 . 
To understand this unsteady nature of the industry , it is essential to remember that sugar production was crucially linked with that of gur . 
This constituted a great hindrance in the planning of sugar production and remained an intractable problem . 
Most of the cane was grown on small , uneconomic plots of land . 
Cooperative farming had not made much headway except in UP . 
The bulk of the cultivation was confined to UP and Bihar where the yield was poor . 
There had been no significant improvement in productivity since the thirties . 
Funds were raised through a number of political dacoities committed under Naren 's supervision . 
This dacoity , which has come to be called the Garden Reach Political Dacoity , created a sensation In Calcutta . 
Naren was arrested a day or two later for his part in the dacoity . 
Another revolutionary ' action ' which took place a few months earlier also deserves notice . 
' Martin ' then urged that the ship should be diverted to Bengal . 
The cargo was said to consist of 30COMMA000 rifles with 400 rounds of ammunition each and 2 lakhs of rupees . 
He made many friendships . 
The most fruitful amongst them was the friendship with Evelyn Trent . 
The collaboration continued until they separated in 1926 . 
In New York , Roy came in contact with many American socialists and other progressives . 
He also came in contact with the Indian nationalist leader , Lala Lajpat Rai . 
Roy began in New York a systematic study of socialism . 
But he soon discovered that he had become a convert to socialism . 
In the beginning Roy did not accept the materialist philosophy of socialism . 
He had done it several times in India . 
He decided to resort to it again . 
He had a letter of Introduction to the Governor of that State . 
He decided to run away to Mexico . 
The border was several hundred miles away but it was not very closely watched . 
Roy reached Mexico in July 1917 . 
In the meanwhile , when Borodin returned to Moscow , he was charged with misappropriation of the Crown jewels . 
That was , Roy wrote In his Memoirs , his '' second contribution to the cause of revolution '' . 
Later they worked together in Moscow and China . 
In spite of differences on political Issues from time to time , the friendship continued throughout Roy 's association with the Comintern . 
Borodin completed Roy 's conversion to communism . 
Roy also Roy introduced Borodin to President Carranza and other important people in the government . 
Borodin impressed them and with Roy 's efforts succeeded in securing many facilities for the work of the Russian Government and the Comintern . 
Thus thanks to Roy 's position in Mexico , the Bolsheviks secured a foothold in the New World . 
Borodin accomplished the mission that was entrusted to him which , he knew , could not have been accomplished but for Roy 's assistance . 
He had been sending reports about Roy 's work . 
He had made many friends and he knew that they would be unhappy at his decision to go away . 
Evelyn Roy , who was with him in Mexico , accompanied him to Moscow . 
The existing machinery did not make it possible to recover the maximum sugar from sugarcane . 
Nor were wages and tasks properly standardised . 
In the next two years , the average annual imports exceeded six lakh tons . 
Prices continued to rule high , affording no relief to the consumer even during periods of glut . 
The scheme of government releases at controlled prices , with a simultaneously free market operating , was intermittently worked from 1950 . 
Accordingly , Roy reached Berlin towards the end of December 1919 . 
The attendance from socialist groups in Europe was meager . 
Roy saw from his hotel window the army coming in as well as marching out . 
It was a demonstration to him of the power of the working class . 
The Social Democratic Party of Germany was the best organised of the socialist parties of Europe . 
They believed in inevitable but gradual progress towards socialism and disapproved violent activities and armed insurrection . 
In power , they tried to steer the country in the direction of socialism . 
Roy was elected to the national and colonial commission , the most important amongst them . 
The discussion over Lenin 's thesis on the national and colonial question took place mainly in the national and colonial commission . 
But Lenin was kind and understanding . 
He amazed Roy by suggesting that he , Roy , should write an alternative thesis . 
After some persuasion . 
Lenin 's as the main and Roy 's as the supplementary thesis . 
'' Our old idea of revolution put the cart before the horse . 
We did not stop to consider the problem of recruiting men to carry arms . 
A FEW WEEKS after the second congress , Roy was in Tashkent1 to begin his work of spreading the revolution to the East . 
It was a vast area inhabited by the most backward people . 
Enemies of the revolution , particularly British imperialism , were inciting them to create troubles for the new Republic . 
Roy used to keep himself well informed of the happenings in the country during the year and make necessary changes in the manifestos . 
Roy never regarded the Congress as the political party of the bourgeoisie . 
That was the constant refrain of all his writings about the Congress . 
Some communist emissaries like Nalini Gupta , Abani Mukherjee , Shaukat Usmani and Charles Ashleigh had also visited India . 
But the groups were small and had no contact with one another . 
They were looking for a dynamic program . 
Roy 's program of mass action on the basis of workers ' and peasants ' struggles for their immediate economic demands attracted them . 
They were also attracted by the goals of communism . 
An opportunity came by but was not seized . 
In the meanwhile the government was watching closely the activities of the communists in India and of Roy and his associates in Europe . 
It decided to launch a conspiracy case and started arresting those who , it knew , were active in the communist movement . 
The first to be arrested was Shaukat Usmani , then followed Muzafifar Ahmad and nalini Gupta . 
He had to pay the price for his part in the conspiracy when he returned to India in 1931 . 
Comintern and the correspondence between the accused and Roy were cited as proof of the conspiracy . 
The court held the offence proved and sentenced the accused to four years ' 
Roy was not happy at the type of defense that the accused had put forward . 
It was a legalistic , technical and apologetic defense . 
It took some time for Roy to devise new channels of communication and continue his work of encouraging and guiding the activity . 
That the setback was temporary was proved by the conference that was held in Kanpur in December 1925 to establish a communist party . 
The plan of the organisers was to establish a legal communist party . 
Roy welcomed the event as a fulfilment of a dream that he had entertained for long . 
Roy 's old friend , Borodin , was then in China . 
He was there since 1923 . 
He had with him a number of Russian advisers including General Galen alias Blucher . 
Borodin did not like the new Comintern line . 
He had on that issue serious differences with Roy and gave him no assistance in implementing it . 
The conference was held eventually in Hankow towards the end of May . 
These differences were debated in the fifth congress of the CCP held in Hankow for two weeks from 27 April onwards . 
On all issues the congress supported Roy and the decisions were on the lines suggested by him . 
He was happy at this outcome . 
He found that the decisions were not being implemented and that different Interpretations were being placed on the decisions that were taken . 
Again the government remained inactive . 
They collected the peasants and over twenty thousand of them surrounded Changsha . 
However , when they were at the gate of the city , the communist headquarters in Wuhan ordered them to disperse and go back . 
The situation was grim but not hopeless , according to Roy . 
He was in favor of a determined offensive . 
I demanded a plenary meeting of the Central Committee to be attended by local leaders . 
The demand was opposed on the plea that important members of the party could not leave their respective posts in those critical days . 
The top leaders were against the plenary session , because local workers were impatient for decisive action and would have surely endorsed my plan . 
Many other Russian comrades had also come around to my view by that time . 
Moscow had backed me up politically as against his opportunism . 
Being mostly his disciples , and ideologically akin to his way , the top leaders of the CP of China followed him . 
There he was promised full support of the Soviet Government as well as of the Communist International ... 
I managed to send a radio message to Moscow demanding the reassurance . 
That was the propaganda that communists carried on against . 
But that was at the worst an indiscretion . 
Nothing turned on it ; the leaders of the left Kuomintang had already decided their course of action . 
With the failure of his mission in China began Roy 's downfall in the Comintern hierarchy . 
Two years later it ended in his final break with the organization . 
Differences in the CPSU assumed serious proportions after Lenin 's death in January 1924 . 
In Germany , the group led by Brandler and Thalheimar , Roy 's friends , was thrown out for the same reason . 
The following year he was expelled from the ECCI and the Politbureau of the CPSU . 
Comintern authorities were expecting a recantation or at least silence . 
But Roy neither recanted nor remained silent . 
He also joined other dissidents in Germany and the USA and began exerting pressure for the rectification of the line adopted by sixth congress . 
He wrote strong articles criticising the line in the journal of the Brandler group . 
This could not be tolerated and in the end he was expelled from the ranks of the Comintern . 
A few extracts from the open letter will perhaps be of interest . 
Some of the units were , however , of uneconomic size . 
Raw material costs were rather high and alternative sources had to be found . 
There was satisfactory progress made after the war in the manufacture of cement machinery . 
They had already captured the home market and further expansion on any significant scale was ruled out . 
However , there were good reasons for modest optimism in view of the anticipated difficulties of imports and the emergence of war demand . 
This was the first time that he was getting the chance of joining the Congress and working within it . 
Thereafter Roy attended the Faizpur session of the Congress held in December 1936 . 
At the session Roy spoke in the Subjects Committee on the Constituent Assembly . 
It was an eloquent appeal to reason . 
The speech had a profound effect upon the audience . 
They felt that Roy had opened before them what they were seeking , the road to revolution . 
The meeting was cordial , but the conversation that took place disclosed to both the gulf that separated them . 
The election campaign opened immediately after the Faizpur session . 
The elections were to the new provincial legislative assemblies which were to come into existence according to the Government of India Act , 1935 . 
The Congress was pledged to wreck the Reforms , but had decided to contest the elections rather than boycott them . 
Roy participated in the election campaign in Maharashtra and Karnataka . 
In April 1937 Roy began the publication of his weeky journal Independent India . 
The Journal enabled him to express his views from week to week on all national and international developments in a clear and forthright manner . 
Imports of all kinds of cotton manufactures had been reduced to negligible proportions even before the war . 
Exports received a spurt during the war in spite of various difficulties . 
The Roy Group which had grown up became more active after Roy 's release . 
Its membership increased and it became a powerful factor in the political and the trade union field . 
About this time Ellen Gottschalk to whom Roy had regularly sent his letters from jail came to India . 
She came with the intention of giving permanent companionship to Roy . 
Later in the year Roy toured Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh , carrying everywhere his message of activising and democratising the Congress . 
In January 1938 he went to Bengal . 
That was his first visit to the province of his birth after a lapse of over twenty years . 
He was welcomed as a hero and his speeches wherever he went were heard with rapt attention . 
By this time Roy had made a home for himself in Dehra Dun . 
It was at 13 , Mohini Road . 
It consisted of an old , deserted bungalow with a big compound with tall trees but overgrown with shrubs . 
In a short while the shrubs were removed and a lovely garden was developed in the compound . 
The place became the permanent residence of the Roys , to which they returned after their regular annual tours . 
The place was away from the city and gave Roy the quiet that he desired . 
Before beginning his work in the Congress , Roy clarified through a statement the line that he proposed to follow . 
If it is the latter , then it must adopt the plan of action and the organisational form of a communist party . 
For years it kept hovering between the two alternatives until years later it was forced out of the Congress . 
It did not like the growth of Roy 's influence in the Congress . 
Roy had also declared that , after the change of line effected by the seventh congress , he had no differences with the Comintern . 
Consequently , Roy did not get any help from the CP group in his work in the Congress . 
Prominent amongst them were Fascism , Historical Role of Islam , Our Problems and Letters to the CSP . 
Clouds of war were hanging over the horizon for several years . 
Many , including Roy , had observed them and warned the people against the threat of war . 
The clouds burst suddenly in September 1939 and the world found itself in the throes of a war . 
The war that broke out was not the war that Roy and many others had predicted . 
It was an unexpected kind of war and it was not easy to recognise its social character and significance . 
He did not succeed and that brought to an end his association with the Congress . 
Roy had a hard job convincing his associates as well . 
By then the war had reached what has been called the phoney state which might have resulted in a stalemate . 
But early in April 1940 Hitler began his blitzkrieg and by the end of June conquered practically the whole of western Europe . 
All free institutions in those countries were suppressed and puppet regimes established in order to use their resources for winning the war . 
England alone remained in the field and freedom and democracy all over the world appeared to be nearing their end . 
These catastrophic developments in Europe had a profound effect on Roy . 
The rise of fascism in Germany delayed the revolution for at least a generation . 
The suggestion was turned down as inappropriate . 
In both cases , the association ended because Roy insisted on thinking for himself and following the path which he considered right . 
But that did not deter him ; he pursued his path of duty unmindful of the abuse that was showered on him . 
Therefore , we do not want fascism to be victorious . 
If we really want fascism to be destroyed , why should we not do anything and everything to bring about its destruction ? '' 
Any policy which will not accept this as the point of departure will be wrong . 
Fascism is the instrument forged to bolster up a system which has decayed throughout the world . 
A free India will then take her rightful place in a world of free men engaged in the task of building a higher civilisation . 
No other national leader except Nehru shared that concern . 
Nehru was , therefore , unhappy at the turn the national movement was taking , but he could not break away from it . 
Roy was more free to strike out his own path . 
Roy was deeply pained by the prospect of Europe relapsing into barbarism as a result of the triumph of fascism . 
His contention , however , was that India could be free only in a free world . 
On the other hand , the government Is suspicious because we are avowed revolutionaries . 
During those days there were from time to time rumors about Roy 's Inclusion In the Viceroy 's Executive Council . 
That enabled him to carry on his work a little more freely and vigorously . 
That did not bring about any change in the Congress attitude towards the war . 
It came to be called the Draft Constitution . 
It is based on the eighteen principles accepted by the RDP at its inaugural conference and popularized by it since then . 
It was prepared by Roy and released for public discussion in December 1944 . 
He was denied independence as well as sovereignty . 
That happened also under capitalism and that , according to Roy , was the basic cause of the crisis that had afflicted the world . 
Neither capitalism nor communism showed the way out of the crisis . 
The remedies advocated by communism , dictatorship of the proletariat and central planning , were equally defective . 
Therefore , the urge for freedom is the only eternal thing in the human world . 
According to it , man is the creature of nature , he is an integral part of the physical universe . 
'' Therefore , man 's being , and becoming , his emotions , will , ideas are also predetermined . 
Therefore , man is essentially rational . 
Man is moral because he is rational . 
Roy had to play a major role in guiding and organising the election campaign . 
Serious talks and disscussions about transfer of power began in that year . 
Roy was anxious that power should be transferred to the people and not to political parties claiming to represent them . 
But even then he could not completely breakaway from politics . 
From time to time , political issues cropped up and he had to state his position on them . 
His articles won high recognition at home and abroad . 
Internal availability as a result increased beyond the absorption capacity of the market . 
Prices fell and the mills made losses or very modest profits . 
The policy , if any , could only be described as one of control , decontrol and recontrol . 
The total dismantling of the controls was done in 1948 , much against the views and advice of experts and economists . 
The result could only be described as disastrous . 
He could not continue his speech and closed the meeting after paying a short tribute . 
In this period Roy wrote and published a number of books . 
The first volume was published in February 1953 and the second a year later after his death . 
It is the quintessence of Roy 's thought and provides a theoretical basis for the philiosophy of radical humanism . 
The first English edition of Roy 's book on China , Revolution and Counterrevolution in China , was published in 1946 . 
It was written in 1930 but had remained unpublished for many reasons . 
They were collected together and published in book form in 1964 under the title M . 
A number of political books were also published during those years . 
This initial explanation given above refers to the ideal aspect of culture . 
After the preliminary discussion , it is comparatively easy for us to give a definition of culture . 
In order to make the idea clearer we will try to distinguish it from two allied conceptsreligion and civilisation . 
The general idea of a nation is a group of men living under the same political order in the same state . 
But it is not an adequate definition . 
This definition covers the two essential conditions of nationhood . 
All other characteristics which we can observe in the existing nations are preconditions paving the way for the formation of a nation . 
In most cases , these additional factors automatically develop by political association over a long period . 
So it seems that nature designed this entire region to be a perfect illustration of the geographical , term ' country ' . 
in the economic field they find it is made difficult for them to get into public or private services or business ; 
Then , in order to restore the balance , emphasis had to be laid on the purely materialistic side of reality . 
These characteristics of the Indian mind have also considerably influenced the moral values of the people . 
In this respect the contrast between the Indian mind and the modern Western mind stands out clearly . 
Its normal relationship to nature is not , therefore , one of struggle but of harmony . 
Barring the amount of rainfall which may differ considerably from year to year , the climatic conditions are fairly steady . 
Thus from the point of view of political organization also we find the same idea of unity in diversity dominating the Indian mind . 
These are a few examples to illustrate the characteristics of the Indian mind and the temperament produced by its special physical and economic environment . 
The other important element is the ideational , i . 
The progress of the textile machinery industry was more impressively reflected in the weaving section . 
The older system of lighting was replaced by fluorescent lighting . 
This was the first of the four research institutes proposed , the other three being earmarked for Bombay , Baroda and Coimbatore . 
Labour deployment was much better in the new mills erected after the war and was improved in some , of the old units . 
There is no doubt that the Hindus inherited both these practices from them . 
The use of the swastika and wheel as the symbols of the sun also dates from that period . 
Opinions differ about the origin of the builders of this civilisation . 
But most scholars agree that they belonged to the old Austric race with a mixture of the races coming from the Mediterranean coast . 
Houses were built of mud . 
The art of making bronze utensils and weapons had made great progress . 
Spinning , weaving , dyeing , and the carpenter 's and goldsmith 's trade were also common . 
Singing and dancing were commonly practised but the most popular pastime was gambling . 
However , the Aryans had not reached any significant level of material civilisation and had not yet learned to build cities . 
But their religious consciousness was of a higher order than that of other ancient peoples . 
They neither built temples nor worshipped images . 
Before coming to India their objects of worship were natural phenomena . 
No intellectual conception is possible . 
As for the second part of the question , '' What is Brahma ? '' 
The son asks the father to explain to him the real nature of Brahma . 
Then he asks the son to think of a subject possessing these attributes . 
According to the Upanishads there are four stages in life through which the seeker after truth has to pass . 
It was , therefore , no surprise that the industry 's cost of production was high , quality poor and productivity of operatives low . 
To put the industry in shape , a massive modernisation program was called for . 
All the machinery installed before 1910 needed to be urgently replaced . 
Government assistance , which was under consideration , could meet only part of the requirements . 
Ninety others were making a nominal profit . 
It was estimated that in 1951 , there were some 25COMMA980 mill looms and 181COMMA278 handlooms engaged in the manufacture of art silk fibers . 
The requirements of filament yarn were estimated at 70 to 75 million lb , all of which was imported till 1950 . 
Woollen manufacturing did not gain significantly in proportion , even though new industries were springing up and the old ones expanding . 
As in the case of the cotton textile industry , the woollen mills had their counterpart in the decentralised sector . 
The fine carpets were the exception and they earned foreign exchange to the tune of Rs 4 to 5 crores a year . 
Among industries , jute was the most severely affected by the depression . 
But the outbreak of the war brought about a buoyancy in its production and profits . 
Its prosperity , so vitally linked up with revival of foreign demand , could be seen to be reflected in growing exports . 
Government was aware of the urgent need to achieve the former objective , but there were still many unsolved problems in the way . 
Minimum support prices to the farmer posed a ticklish problem . 
Prices were tending to be depressed because of an increase in inferior jute output which mills were unwilling to lift . 
That was , however , only part of the problem . 
Price fixation must have a basis in cost of production , of which little was known . 
The difference between the two sets of prices was collected as ' surcharge ' and vested in the Equalisation Fund . 
TISCO and SCOB , represented to the government for a higher retention price in view of the rising costs of production . 
The Board recommended , in 1949 , separate retention prices for TISCO and SCOB in view of their varying cost structures . 
The achievement was short of the target by nearly 30 million tonnes . 
There was a shortfall of about 18 million tonnes in the Sixth Plan . 
Demand for coal turned sluggish once again during the middle of the Fifth Plan period . 
The resulting coal shortage severely affected industrial production . 
The pattern of coal consumption has undergone a significant change over the years . 
On the other hand , coal consumption by the steel industry and power sectors has increased . 
Now , it has become extremely important to conserve these limited resources and make the best use of the coal that is produced . 
It was thought that an intensified coal production program was possible only through expansion of public sector collieries . 
Moreover , the Industrial Policy resolution did not allow new collieries in the private sector . 
Demand , however , slowed down following the recession of 1966 and the gap between supply and needs was narrowed . 
However , serious shortages soon cropped up and have become chronic since . 
The progress in this direction has been encouraging . 
Regional electricity boards have come into existence to promote integration of power systems at the regional level . 
But the development of transmission and distribution systems has not kept pace with expansion of generation facilities in some of the regions . 
Over the years , the sources of electric power have undergone a significant change . 
But then followed a period of technical collaboration with the Soviet Union which proved crucial in dramatically transforming the oil scene in the country . 
But once again , the prospect of discovery of new reserves receded . 
Though the Soviet collaboration was initially fruitful , it seemed to have given a false hope about the extent of the reserves . 
During 1967 the ONGC had located a large prospective structure in the offshore areas near Bombay . 
A gasfield of substantial size was also found at South Bassein in the same area . 
Efficiency of existing assets was low as the bulk of them was obsolete . 
The Seventh Plan accorded , therefore , the highest priority to modernisation and increasing productivity through proper maintenance and better utilisation of existing assets . 
But the choice in other respects is not always very clear . 
The main thrust of the Sixth Plan program was to provide for expansion of capacities to meet specialised requirements of components and materials . 
Another area of emphasis was technological upgradation and standardisation of components and equipment . 
Major policy changes were initiated , starting from 1980 to ensure the achievement of the Plan objectives . 
Licencing and import policies were liberalised . 
In spite of substantial expansion of production across the major segments , the basic weakness persisted , i . 
The output was equally shared by black and white TVs and color TVs . 
A Central Electricity Commission was set up in 1948 , which was later designated the Central Water and Power Commission . 
Thus there was an inadequate appreciation of the necessity for speedy action in a vital sector . 
The Order Diplogossata , ectoparasitic on the Gambian rat , does not occur in India . 
Their physical activity and powers of endurance and flight are truly astonishing . 
Indeed they are always found doing something or the other . 
The bird achieves its lift by moving forward , but the insect does not have to do so . 
Food of insect and how they feed The food and feeding habits of insects are no less interesting than their flight . 
The parasite has no separate existence apart from its host . 
Although parasitic insects attack nearly every group of animals , it is an irony that other insects are their most common hosts . 
other parasitic insecta hyperparasite or a parasite on a parasite . 
The insect society is basically a society of women , run by women for women , one in which the male is a nonentity . 
The female does all the work and the male is ignored and is an ignoble dummy . 
Inequality of capacity , performance , preference , status , reward and opportunity is the most outstanding feature of insect societies . 
Most insects toil ceaselessly to earn their living compared to a few who live in comparative luxury and idleness . 
There is a rigid caste system , which is based on the work undertaken and from which an escape is out of question . 
Most insects lead solitary lives , but some are decidedly gregarious and live in crowds . 
We have the familiar swarming caterpillar or the locust swarms . 
These insects are by no means social insects . 
Social life is not simply a crowd of individuals living together , sharing the same food and occupying the same habitat . 
It is this division of labor and mutual interdependence which defines a social insect and marks it off from the ordinary crowds . 
The males soon perish and are in any case eaten off by ants , lizards , etc . 
Each female soon grows enormously into the queen termite and lays over millions of eggs . 
The sterile females or the worker termite hatch from these eggs and take on the various tasks in the colony . 
They gather pollen and nectar from flowers . 
Their tongues are elongated and modified to reach down to the nectary . 
The next year , domestic bauxite was used . 
The Indian Aluminum Company , Alwaye , which had the distinction of pioneering the industry , drew its bauxite from the Bihar mines . 
Another plant , the Aluminium Corporation of India , came into existence after the war . 
This too had its mines in Bihar , while the plant was located at Jaykaynagar near Asansol . 
Besides , some of the raw materials like cryolite and aluminium fluoride had also to be imported . 
The adult beetles feed on flower petals , especially yellow ones , and on pollen or on grass spikes , including rice and millet . 
The eggs are laid in a mass in soil . 
Once inside , its first act is to suck the eggs of the bee or the grasshopper dry . 
It now feeds on the honey stored by the bee and pupates and emerges as the adult blister beetle . 
There are several species of blister beetles in our country . 
Mylabris phalerata is about half the size of the other and has very similar habits . 
They feed on pollen grains , petals , tender ears of paddy , millets and other grasses . 
This liquid causes painful blisters on human skin . 
It occurs also in South Africa and throughout India , Nepal , Burma and other neighbouring countries . 
The caterpillar is gray colored , with five black and yellow bands on each body segment , in addition to a yellow stripe . 
The green pupa has golden spots in front and a serrate metallic colored band behind . 
The caterpillars of Pieris breed on the leaves of cabbage mustard and other Cruciferae , sometimes also Capparidaceae . 
Pieris brassicae is the well known white cabbage butterfly . 
Ixias pyrene are yellow and black and occur in Sri Lanka , South India , Bengal , the Himalaya and Burma . 
Catopsila crocale and C . 
Eurema hecabe is a small beautiful yellow colored butterfly , with black edges on the upper side of the wings . 
They are lovers of sunshine and are also powerful fliers . 
They visit flowers , though some settle on damp ground , dung , toddy or rotting fruits . 
All nymphalids love to bask in the sun on trees and bushes . 
Their caterpillars feed on leaves of a great variety of plants . 
These butterflies are abundant in the northeast and are truly denizens of dense humid forests . 
They are not generally flower visitors , but are strongly attracted towards manure and overripe or rotting fruits . 
Erioboea schreiberi is the blue nawab of the Western Ghats , Assam and Burma . 
Heavy chemicals constitute raw materials and process agents for a large number of consumer goods , whereas ' fine ' chemicals are consumed directly . 
The supply of sulphur was , therefore , the limiting factor in the production , of its derivatives like sulphuric acid . 
Imports of sulphur amounted to 55COMMA326 tons in 1950 and to 73COMMA941 tons in 1953 . 
The sulphuric acid industry was started before the war , but developed largely during the war . 
As for the other derivatives of sulphur , the country 's needs of iron , copper , sodium , etc . 
Raw materials required by the industry like coal , coke , limestone , ammonia were all available internally . 
Requiring a large investment soda ash was not developed before the war . 
They succeed in doing this by utilizing the forces of surface tension of water . 
As a rule , the surface dwellers inhabit stagnant waters and the divers inhabit both stagnant and water . 
It is very much similar to the desert locust in general appearance , but is somewhat more reddish colored . 
We also find insects that do not occur in the plains , but which are confined exclusively to the mountains . 
They are the mountain autochthonous insects , viz . 
This grouping is of course artificial and wholly unscientific , though a necessary fiction of convenience . 
It is not always possible for us to label an insect as completely injurious or as completely useful . 
We must not also forget that this grouping is based on an infinitesimally small fraction of the insect life of India . 
It is totally a matter of complete indifference whether these insects live or die . 
They seek out the most vulnerable stages of the harmful insects , far better than any cultivator can hope to do . 
The Hymenopterous parasites are mainly Ichneumonids , Braconids , Evaniids , Chalcidoids , Proctotrypoids , etc . 
Among the Diptera the most important entomophagous parasites are Tachinids . 
No less than five thousand entomophagous parasites are so far known from India , there being many more still to be discovered . 
We can not hope to give here even a sketchy account of their habits . 
We may refer to some by way of examples . 
Very often over 70 % of the grasshopper eggs in a locality may be found parasitized . 
The caterpillars which feed on leaves of crop plants are heavily parasitized by Braconids like Apanteles , and Chalcidoides like Brachymeria . 
Once the three friends invited the celebrated nationalist leader , Surendranath Banerjea , to Kodalia and arranged a meeting for him . 
In a short while , it developed an inner or underground wing which became the center of revolutionary activities all over Bengal . 
In course of time , similar organizations were set up in many other towns , some as branches and others as independent centres . 
About this time the international situation had become tense . 
The war between England and Germany began in August 1914 . 
The revolutionaries then redoubled their efforts to take advantage of the situation . 
NAREN , who was soon to become M . 
Communism offered in those days the most promising way to the goal of socialism . 
The case involved about a hundred Americans , Germans and Indians . 
Roy was arrested one evening on the campus of the Columbia University where he had gone after attending a meeting addressed by Lajpat Ral . 
The Grand Jury indicted him for ' violating the immigration laws of the USA ' and pending trial released him on personal security . 
Roy left the court with the determination not to go there again . 
There were sixteen factories lying idle in 1956 . 
The cost of production of Indian sugar was high and , for exports , the quality was low . 
Use of bagasse for paper manufacture involved considerable deployment of funds which were hard to come by . 
The first ever paper plant based on bagasse went into production in 1953 . 
The technical efficiency of Indian mills was low as compared with that of their counterparts in other countries . 
Both talked to him about the organization of revolutionary work in the East , including India . 
As a result Indian The second congress of the Comintern met in Moscow from 23 July to 7 August 1920 . 
The congress opened with a ceremonial inauguration in Leningrad where all delegates were taken in special trains . 
Roy and his wife , Evelyn Roy , attended the congress officially as the representatives of the Communist Party ; of Mexico . 
India was represented by two others , Abani Mukherjee and M . 
The first plenary session elected a number of commissions . 
He , wanted to write about the decline and fall of British imperialism . 
A good amount of material was collected and kept for safe custody with a publisher in Berlin . 
It fell prey to the vandalism of Hitler . 
He had some original ideas about the Aryans and the characteristics of the Hindu civilisation . 
It is a pity that preoccupation with politics did not allow him to write the books that he desired to write . 
It changed its name from time to time to escape the police net . 
It had also to change its place of publication several times . 
Even in Europe , Roy was not free from police attention . 
Once he was thrown out of Germany and had to seek refuge in France . 
Manifestos and open letters were also issued by him from time to time . 
Many of these letters fell into the hands of the police . 
Roy 's manifestos to the Indian National Congress began with its session in Ahmedabad held in December 1921 . 
They were sent to the Gaya , Gauhati , Kakinada and Belgaum sessions of the Congress . 
More important amongst them was the manifesto to the Gaya session over which C . 
Roy also held the same view . 
Entry into Kuomintang paid rich dividends to communists in the form of wide support amongst workers and peasants . 
Complications arose , however , in 1926 . 
He organised a coup against them in March 1926 in Canton and another in April 27 in Shanghai . 
Communists supported left Kuomintang , but discovered later that there was little difference between the two . 
It insisted , however , on continuing the alliance with the left Kuomintang . 
Roy and his delegation reached Canton in February 1927 . 
The nationalist government had by then shifted to Hankow , one of the three neighbouring cities collectively called Wuhan . 
He had to go there , but was held up in Canton for three weeks . 
The journey took five weeks and it was April by the time that they reached Hankow . 
The debate went on for some days with Moscow giving evasive and contradictory directives . 
He was defeated and turned back through the spontaneous resistance of the people , but the government took no action against him . 
A fortnight later , a more serious revolt took place at Changsha . 
The story of the cement industry during the war and after was one of steady expansion . 
In spite of this phenomenal growth , per capital consumption of cement in India remained the lowest in the world . 
But even then it compared poorly with 500 to 6 COMMA000 Ib in the Western countries . 
The industry was in the happy position of having an expanding market , a satisfactory supply of raw materials and a reasonably efficient organization . 
It had the distinction of having financed its growth through its own reserves . 
To improve the situation . 
He prepared a program entitled ' Platform of Unity ' . 
The attempt did not succeed immediately but in the unity that took place later , the program played an important part . 
That happened in Calcutta at the annual session held in July 1931 . 
Communists then walked out and formed a new organization called the Red Trade Union Congress . 
Equally exaggerated were his ideas about the militancy and consciousness of workers . 
To attain this much desired goal , we not only require a clear vision of it , but a definite plan of action . 
I find it appropriate to add that socialism or communism which means the same thing is not the issue of the day . 
Thus began Roy 's entry into the Congress . 
Both accepted the individual as the central point of all social thought and action . 
There were , of course , some fundamental differences . 
Roy was a materialist and rationalist ; while Gandhi was a spiritualist and , relied more on his inner voice ' . 
That did not , however , come in the way of working together for some practical ends . 
Common work of that type developed in later years between the Radical Humanists and the Sarvodaya followers of Gandhijl . 
Roy 's own ideas about Gandhiji also underwent a big change in the last couple of years of the latter 's life . 
He realised that Gandhiji was a big moral force . 
It reached him when he was speaking in a meeting in Calcutta . 
Students of India 's cultural history know that thought has always had a high place in the scale of values in India . 
Such thinking is more religious than philosophical . 
That is why religious philosophy has always occupied a central place in India 's cultural life . 
Let us not misunderstand the import of what has been said above . 
The religious ceremony of the coronation and other ceremonies and sacrifices had been introduced . 
Of these the most famous was the Ashvamedh or horse sacrifice . 
It was performed by a raja whom the rulers of a considerable part of the country had acknowledged as their overlord . 
The raja who aspired to be an emperor would let a horse , dedicated to the gods , loose to roam about the country . 
If the horse was not captured within a year it was brought back to the capital and sacrificed with great pomp and ceremony . 
They had tamed the elephant and used him for riding as well as for the transport of goods . 
India 's overseas trade was , however , largely carried in foreign vessels . 
This involved a huge drain on our precious foreign exchange . 
Moreover , increasing coastal and inland water transport services would have relieved the railways of considerable strain . 
To meet mainly the latter objective , the government provided funds for ship building at Visakhapatnam . 
The share of railways was expected to increase further with rise in diesel prices . 
The policy of liberally granting national permits to truck operators does not seem to square with the approach recommended by the Committee . 
It was also found that the overall burden on road transport industry was neither heavy nor inequitous . 
Sickness among the mills has been growing since the 1970s . 
The Corporation has been incurring sizable losses year after year . 
Traditionally , the jute manufacturing industry has been next in importance only to the cotton textile industry in the national economy . 
For many years , it was the single largest earner of foreign exchange . 
Though it has lost this pride of place lately , it continues to be a major exporting industry . 
Besides , there are 40 lakh farmers engaged in jute cultivation . 
As we have seen in an earlier chapter , the industry has had a particularly fickle fortune . 
As a percentage of our total export trade , jute goods exports registered a steady decline . 
The industry has not been able to hold its ground in exports in terms of either value or volume . 
While sacking and hessian exports were meeting demand resistance , carpet backing was our new hope . 
But even the export of this item is facing diminishing prospects . 
The main threat to jute exports has come from synthetics . 
Emergence of plastic and paper materials as substitutes and growing use of container transmission have jeopardised the future of traditional packing material like jute . 
Jute carpet backing has been losing ground to primary backing polypropelene backing . 
The subsidy scheme had to be revived as the prices of ships being built in India continued to be higher than prices abroad . 
Frequent changes in ship designs both delayed the deliveries and increased the costs . 
It was disheartening to the yard struggling to find its feet . 
Therefore , the government had no alternative but to expand capacity speedily to make the industry competitive . 
Although shipping was a ' mixed ' industry , shipbuilding came to be owned by the state . 
Up to the middle of the fifties , the development of Indian shipping and shipbuilding industries had been limited ; they needed considerable acceleration . 
India 's oil imports averaged 3 million tons , but it did not own a single tanker . 
As a result , there were frequent delays and avoidable hardships and congestion at the few major ports . 
The loss of Karachi threw a heavy burden on Bombay , and a quicker development of Kandla as a substitute was an urgent necessity . 
The major ports were being worked to their full capacity and had no reserve for seasonal peaks of trade . 
The equipment at the ports had been overworked during the war and had become obsolete . 
The setting up of two oil refineries at Bombay called for extra port facilities . 
Foodgrain handling on a large scale had to be given a high priority after the war . 
The capacity , therefore , left for normal traffic was further declining . 
India was among the early starters in air transport . 
For increased production steps were contemplated for better capacity utilisation . 
Happily , the Fifth Plan witnessed progressively improved performance on the part of the integrated steel plants . 
But for the railway strike in May 1974 and shortage of power from DVC , production would have been higher . 
It also represented capacity utilisation of nearly 84 per cent . 
However , as observed above , the actual production was only 8.2 million tonnes . 
The Seventh Plan period was considered to be the stabilisation phase for the steel industry . 
The accent was on modernisation , increased productivity and speedy implementation of the ongoing projects . 
Mention must also be made of M s M . 
Iron and steel technology changes very fast . 
It is , therefore , of great importance that adequate efforts for research and development are continuously made so that technological progress is possible . 
Keeping this in view , the government created the research and development organization under HSL at Ranchi . 
This organization has succeeded in making considerable technical progress in many directions . 
Of these , 100 were reported to have gone into production . 
Soon they were up against many odds , such as shortage of power and scrap , and above all , fall in demand . 
The factors favoring mini steel plants are low investment , shorter gestation and regional dispersal . 
However , the Bureau of Industrial Costs and Prices found that production of mild steel by electric arc furnaces was a costly process . 
Such furnaces were , therefore , used in industrialised countries mainly for the production of alloy and special steels . 
The government also thought that the problems of mini steel plants needed deeper study before their future development could be determined . 
So a cautious approach to their future growth was adopted . 
By varying the proportions of the alloying elements , the special characteristics of special steel can be altered . 
The production of special steel is strategic not only for their critical industrial uses but also for defense needs . 
There are , however , few plants exclusively manufacturing special steel . 
However , in view of the financial difficulties , not much progress could be made . 
The plant went into commercial production in March 1982 . 
A modern blanking facility was added in 1993 to produce coin blanks and utility blanks . 
The country has large bauxite deposits necessary for a substantial aluminium manufacturing capacity . 
As a result , sizable imports had to be made . 
During the sixties , imports accounted for about 30 per cent of the supply . 
However , demand declined during the early seventies and imports also fell in sympathy . 
The two major components of demand for aluminium are EC or electric grade and CG or commercial grade . 
At the same time , the demand for other uses could not be met due to inadequate supply . 
EC grade demand constituted over 50 per cent of the total during the sixties . 
There was , however , a steady improvement in production after 1946 . 
Even the most optimistic estimate of the Bhabha Committee regarding future demand and production was proved naively low in a couple of years . 
In the latter half of the sixties , the output of electronics grew at an average annual rate exceeding 25 per cent . 
The Committee assumed that the production of entertainment equipment like radio receivers , TV sets and tape recorders would double between 1965 and 1970 . 
This made way for the ' transistor revolution ' in the country . 
The production of computer systems increased substantially and exceeded the Plan target , but the base was still small . 
Even so , the fact remains that the growth rate of the industry was high , exceeding 30 per cent per annum . 
Certain qualitative achievements must also be noted . 
BHEL commenced the manufacture of industrial electronic control equipment . 
How long they would last depended on what steps were taken for their conservation by way of stowing , washing and blending . 
Use of oil and electricity in place of coal by the railways was a gradual process . 
The objective of the Board 's action was to reduce gradually the output of coking coal . 
There were proposals for washing and blending coals . 
The rate of growth of this industry was 3.44 per cent per year . 
The railway equipment , which remained depressed in the past , fared no better in later years . 
The heavy vehicles industry too grew very slowly . 
It may be noted that both railway equipment and heavy vehicles have significant weightage in the index of industrial production . 
Vanaspati as well as sugar and tea , which are important mass consumption items , also performed badly . 
Thus , it is clear that the growth record of the industrial sector in the seventies was patchy . 
Industrial production grew by 1.6 per cent in 1.974 . 
By 1925 , it was 372COMMA152 kW . 
During the next ten years , it almost trebled and by the end of 1950 , it had gone up fivefold to 1COMMA712COMMA515 kW . 
The position did not change during the next ten years . 
In view of the limited resources of oil and coal , vigorous exploitation of hydel power assumed great urgency . 
From very early years , public authorities have owned a substantial part of the public electric supply industry . 
This was as it should be , considering the public utility nature of this industry . 
But in 1979 there was a decline , once again because of the widespread drought during the year . 
It is obvious that though the industrial structure changed over the years , its dependence on agriculture and allied sectors was still substantial . 
This , however , would be possible only if our industry became globally competitive and efficient . 
This process had begun in the late seventies though it gained momentum in the early eighties . 
Towards this end , it advocated recognition of higher capacities arising out of technological improvements and labor productivity . 
The public sector must become much more dynamic and competitive . 
The Plan advocated further liberalisation of industrial regulations keeping in view the need of productivity , scale economies and efficiency . 
It also pleaded for a unified approach to small , medium and large industries instead of the compartmentalised approach followed hitherto . 
The complementarities of the sectors must be kept in mind so that their growth could be harmonised and optimised . 
His very descent , from the arboreal prehominid stock , is traced back to an ancient Insectivorean ancestor that ate insects ! 
Truly insects are the prime architects of our landscape and the partners in our agriculture , industry and culture . 
Do not insects destroy our crops , spoil our stored products and transmit fatal diseases of man and domestic animals ? 
Sure they do , but for that man himself is primarily responsible . 
By interfering with natural ecosystems , man has unwittingly forced some insects to turn injurious to him . 
Otherwise , the lives of most other insects would run as smoothly as ever before . 
We know them all because many of them literally live most intimately with us . 
Insects also differ from these creatures in having a distinct head , a thorax and an abdomen . 
The six legs are confined to the thorax . 
In most insects the thorax bears one or two pairs of wings . 
The insects were indeed the first animals on the Earth which really flew , millions of years before even birds . 
As a result , there was a great increase in the world consumption of petroleum products . 
World production increased from 293 million metric tons in 1940 to 631 million tons in 1955 . 
As against this , the Indian production remained static for decades . 
This was a disheartening fact , considering the great industrial potentialities of petroleum products . 
The use of oil as a source of energy was only one of its many uses . 
But , unfortunately , India 's oil production was limited and the reserves had not been explored . 
It improved in the next five years till it exceeded 14COMMA000 . 
But it was not adequate to meet the railways ' needs . 
The position in regard to coaches was not so bad . 
The railway workshops had been the largest producers in the past . 
The public sector Hindustan Aircraft Ltd . 
Standardisation was lacking . 
Neither the industry nor the government was aware of the great strides countries like Japan and Germany were making in these lines . 
Fiscal protection was given and extended from time to time in most of the cases and restrictions on imports were imposed . 
Another bee Stelis does the same thing in the nest of the bee Anthidium . 
We have , however , seen the way in which insects look after their young . 
It is perfectly aware of the situation and proceeds about the job in a most purposeful way . 
The wasp has now three courses open . 
An occasional wasp swoops down from nowhere , whirring its wings to disappear again ; Cicadas sing all day long hidden among trees . 
The grasshoppers , most appropriately named , are happy at home among green grass and other low vegetation . 
In an emergency , a grasshopper can also fly . 
In our country grasshoppers are most abundant during the monsoon rains , but are not wholly absent at other times . 
The mynah snaps up grasshoppers by dozens in no time from a bush , in which you see none . 
The development of the eggs is rather slow and may take a whole winter or the dry summer season . 
Many of them are vegetarians , but others predacious . 
During the monsoon rains , they are generally attracted to light at night . 
The crickets The crickets or Gryllids are great chirpers and expert burrowers , though some of them live on the surface of the ground . 
Brachytrepes achatinus is a large brown cricket that often comes above ground when its burrows are flooded by overnight rain during the monsoon . 
They are large brown creatures , living in underground chambers , in which they raise their young ones . 
Sometime , attracted by strong white light at night , they may crawl above ground and unlike other crickets , they never jump . 
They have no ' jaws ' as such , no teeth to bite and chew hard and solid food . 
The wings develop gradually and become evident as stumps , at two or three moults before attaining the adult stage . 
Though most bugs are slow in their movements , some can run vigorously and others can also jump like a grasshopper . 
One or two bugs have even invaded the sea . 
They may often be seen on certain crops . 
They capture small prey and suck their blood . 
The young cicada nymphs dig in the soil and suck at roots and develop very slowly through thirteen , seventeen or more years . 
Their adult life is but a few weeks long . 
They depend on trees for food ; when young they suck at roots and as adults on tree trunks and branches . 
They are colored and marked like bark of trees on which they generally live . 
the female can hear , but can not answer , as she is incapable of producing sound . 
Cicadas are rare in the plains , but abundant on the hills and on the Himalaya . 
Our commonest Cicada is Platypleura . 
Their larvae live in vertical pits in soil and develop slowly for a year or so . 
The farmer should consider this beetle as a friend . 
It is a bright red colored beetle with seven conspicuous black spots of variable shape and size . 
Both larvae and adults feed on various kinds of aphids ; they are therefore to be considered as beneficial . 
This is also a predator on aphids ; a single beetle in captivity consumed nearly two hundred aphids a day . 
There are two common species of Epilachna viz . 
The Jaykaynagar plant had , on the other hand , the disadvantage of high cost of thermal power . 
Basically , both were of uneconomic size which made the very foundation of the industry weak and its future uncertain . 
The Indian Copper Corporation started production of copper in 1928 . 
This remained the only plant of its kind till after the war when its capacity was 7COMMA200 tons . 
At the same time , imports averaged 30COMMA000 tons . 
They are all typical denizens of dense forests , particularly humid tropical forests . 
The atlas moth is the largest of the Indian moths . 
The tussar silkmoth is not domesticated ; the silk is obtained from its cocoon collected from wild plants in the forest . 
Those which have chosen to do so have , however , suffered inevitable degeneration in a number of ways . 
Their adventure has not been a blessing either to them or to man . 
The case is , however , different in the cities . 
These are terribly harsh words , but alas they merely show how ignorant the modern educated man makes himself in his assumed superior wisdom ! 
There is a popular belief , particularly among our fashionable city folk that the houseflies are dirty creatures . 
Believe it or not , the housefly is one of the cleanest creatures on the earth . 
It is almost an obsession with the housefly to keep its body clean ! 
Here is harmony and rhythm of shape , size color and movement ; music of geometry ! 
It is in this way that flies spread the pathogens of cholera , typhoid and dysentery . 
He creates the unsanitary conditions that '' favor the fly to carry the contaminating matter . 
Other species include Musca nebula , the most common housefly of India and Musca vicina , a smaller fly frequenting our homes . 
The housefly has numerous enemies like lizards , birds , etc . 
It suffers high mortality from epidemic diseases caused by fungal parasites . 
It is attacked by parasitic mites and nematode worms . 
The bug sucks up the mixture of blood and saliva . 
The bedbug has not been positively known to transmit any human disease ; it may develop into a vector of disease germ in future . 
They are secondarily aquatic insects that breathe air even when submerged under water . 
They walk and run with great speed on the water surface . 
They have long antennae and well developed compound eyes . 
These two bugs merrily run about together and skate on the pond surface throughout the hours of sunshine . 
They are at once recognized by their rapid complicated circling on the surface of the water . 
All cases are open in front and closed behind . 
Caddisworms feed on algae and other aquatic plants or are also carnivorous and feed on other insect larvae . 
Mosquitoes The familiar mosquitoes are true aquatic insects in their infancy . 
Although the larvae are aquatic in every sense , it is remarkable that they breathe atmospheric air directly . 
The diurnal temperature fluctuations are thus very large . 
There is a popular misconception that the desert does not support life . 
It is , however , the home of numerous complex and specialized animals and plants . 
They come out only during the night . 
The majority of desert insects are expert diggers and burrowers . 
They are also capable of running very fast on the loose and shifting sands , without tumbling down . 
The desert lives at night and sleeps during the daytime . 
The problem of water scarcity has been solved by the desert insects in a variety of ways . 
Many insects live habitually at the edges of oasis and do not stray far from the water . 
They can also be closed tightly to prevent the escape of moisture in an emergency . 
Their closest relatives occur largely in Arabia and parts of Africa , especially Sudan . 
The common grasshoppers are solitary insects and generally do not show any tendency to breed gregariously or to migrate in great swarms periodically . 
Chilasa agestor occurs from Tonkin to Siikkim , Chilasa agestor govindra from Kumaon to Kashmir and Chilasa agestor chiragshahi occurs in western Kashmir . 
Thousands of beetles of all types inhabit these forests . 
Their survival is dependent on the extreme atmospheric cold , snow and ice . 
It is the snow and ice which provide them with all their moisture requirements . 
Some of them die on exposure to the warmth of the human hand . 
This is simply not possible , at least in India . 
What we very conveniently forget is the fact that , unlike USA , agriculture in India is very ancient . 
Any disturbance of this natural balance by man is harmful eventually to man ! 
When man arrived , the insect inhabitants accepted him and readily assimilated him . 
This was not desirable for agriculture , nor was it in the interest of a balanced development of the industry . 
We would only briefly recount the progress of sugar , cement and paper industries during the forties and the early fifties . 
Like the two premier and old Indian textile industries , viz . 
But the protective duties were converted into revenue duties of the same amount . 
By the fifties , India had emerged as the sixth largest producer of sugar and the second largest producer of sugarcane . 
India would have topped the list of producers if raw sugar also were taken into consideration . 
The most prominent amongst the latter was the Anushilan Samity of Dacca . 
Each Samity was under one leader . 
Rigorous rules of admission , were enforced , strict discipline was maintained and effective steps were taken to preserve the secrecy of operations . 
The government and police were all along suspicious about the Samitys . 
The Calcutta Anushilan Samity was declared illegal in 1908 . 
He was a government-employee government employee working as a shorthand clerk in the office of the Financial Secretary to the Government of Bengal . 
He was affectionate by nature and had a very attractive personality . 
He gathered around him a large group of young revolutionaries . 
Naren accepted him as his leader and in later years the two worked together in a number of revolutionary ventures . 
The bombs manufactured at the center were used in a number of places in Calcutta . 
The one used at Muzafferpore by Khudiram Bose on 30 April 1908 was traced to the center . 
The centres was raided and searched and on the basis of the materials that were found , a conspiracy case was instituted . 
It was the Alipore Conspiracy Case in which Barin Ghosh and Aurobindo Ghosh were the principal accused . 
Naren was not involved in the case , though the police had suspicions about him . 
He was released on bail and then he absconded . 
The Netra dacoity was not tried separately . 
It was made part of the Howrah Conspiracy Case which was instituted a year later . 
Living as a fugitive , Naren spent most of his time in Howrah and Sibpur . 
Naren 's Chingripota group played a big part in this work . 
He also worked as a bill collector of a rice mill and a timber works in Beliaghata . 
Sometime later , Naren gave up his jobs and opened a restaurant which became a center for procurement of arms and exchange of information . 
It was popular amongst soldiers and sailors owing to the special dishes that Naren used to cook for them . 
Preparations for armed Insurrection required funds . 
His fight against the police is enshrined in the annals of the revolutionary movement of Bengal as the Battle of Balasore . 
In the meanwhile , Naren was busy in his search for arms . 
The German Consul complained that the Indians lacked organization and that they were not able to keep secrets . 
Naren had three or four meetings with the Consul but found that he was making no progress . 
The Germans had no men to send and were unwilling to risk a ship . '' 
They also carried several guns each . 
Naren accepted the advice and changed his name to Manavendranath . 
The surname Roy is , however , far different from Bhattacharya . 
It is not possible to know why the particular name Roy , common Bengali name , was selected . 
As described by him , '' It was the beginning of an existing journey in a new world . '' 
He could not , however , give up his old mission of securing arms for the revolution in India without a struggle . 
In Stanford , Roy met many academicians and political workers . 
The civil war had ended but the country was still in a disturbed condition . 
The writ of the central government did not run in some parts . 
President Carranza had proclaimed a new constitution which gave some rights to the people as well as advanced the interests of workers and peasants . 
The government was generally popular , but it did not enjoy the support of any organised popular group . 
Roy was at that time of great help to the government in mobilising the support of the people . 
They brought him to the attention of liberal politicians and socialist workers . 
There were a few persons in Mexico City who called themselves socialists . 
But they were more anarchists and syndicalists than socialists . 
They did not believe in political action nor in the defense of the country . 
In a few months the situation became ripe for launching the Socialist Party . 
An impressive conference was held in Mexico City in December 1917 and the Socialist Party was launched . 
The conference elected Roy as General Secretary of the party . 
His work for creating the party was so outstanding that nobody paid any attention to the fact that he was a foreigner . 
The party conference adopted a socialist program and demanded from the government a number of measures for the amelioration of the large masses . 
It extended at the same time support to the government in resisting the threatened American invasion . 
He had to draft the labor bill and accompany the Labour Minister to various places to pacify workers who were resorting to strikes . 
The activities of the Socialist Party strengthened and widened the social base of the government . 
With the people mobilised in support of the government , the danger of foreign invasion disappeared . 
The President and the government gave Roy full credit for this favourable change in the national and international situation . 
While Roy was thus busy building up the Socialist Party , a mysterious visitor came to Mexico City . 
He was Michael Borodin , one of the leaders of the Bolshevik Party of Russia . 
He was on a secret mission to the New World . 
'' It was almost too late when the urgently needed reassurance came . 
They decided to act quickly and began their offensive against the communists . 
Trade unions and peasant unions were also destroyed . 
A reign of terror was established . 
Borodin left Hankow on 27 July . 
Roy 's mission to China ended in failure . 
But it was the failure not of an individual but of an institution . 
The position was rendered more difficult by the factional quarrels in the Comintern between Trotsky and Stalin . 
Roy tried his best to implement the directives that he received from time to time . 
But he had to work under very adverse conditions . 
There were serious differences between him and Borodin and the CCP who had the real power in their hands . 
First , there was the contest for leadership between Trotsky and Stalin . 
Then , there were differences about the policies to be adopted by the Soviet Union . 
There were , of course , many fine shades and variations from time to time . 
Manycommunists who did not believe in that policy were thrown out of the CPSU and the Comintern . 
In order to vanquish them he thought it necessary to effect a leftward turn . 
The political attack against Roy began at the sixth Comintern congress . 
It was launched by Kuusenin on the basis of a theory that economist Eugene Varga had put forward . 
It is a fact which is the key to the situation . '' 
The stage was set for the purpose . 
I challenge anybody to find . 
But the mistaken line pursued in India is but a small part of a huge blunder . 
Therefore , it is not permissible to keep quiet . 
The International is in a crisis which is manifested by the composition and exercise of its leadership . '' 
The other was that he misappropriated large amounts of money . 
He continued to write for communist journals on India until about the middle of 1929 . 
Thereafter even that avenue was closed . 
He had then to consider other ways for being of service to the Indian revolution . 
Imaginative and enterprising as he always was , he found one very soon . 
ROY was always anxious to return to India and participate actively in the struggle for Indian freedom . 
He accepted the suggestion to go to Moscow because Moscow was on the way to India . 
After the second Comintern congress , he welcomed his posting in Tashkent because that took him nearer to India . 
He pleaded with Stalin several times to be allowed to go . 
It is reported that Stalin agreed to his going after he had completed his mission to China . 
But the mission failed . 
Roy discussed with his new friends his plan of going to India . 
The three who undertook the task were Taiyab Shaikh and Sunder Kabadifrom Bombay and Brajesh Singh from Lucknow . 
Expenditure increased faster than revenues . 
Government finances themselves being under great strain , the railways ' ways and means position was unsatisfactory . 
In retrospect , it seemed that the railway convention of 1924 had not fulfilled its objectives and needed to be revised . 
A committee of Parliament , therefore , was set up in 1949 to overhaul rail finances . 
The revised convention , as recommended by the committee , came into effect from 1 April 1950 . 
The contribution to the depreciation fund was fixed at a minimum of Rs 15 crores , the actual amount depending on the railway surpluses . 
The instructions of the Comintern to the groups were that the orders were to be obeyed without any question . 
He was not unprepared for it , but may not have expected that it would be so implacable and virulent . 
The CI was not happy with Roy 's return to India . 
I shall work for that purpose . '' 
They also knew of Roy 's opposition to Gandhism . 
Roy 's entry into the Congress was not therefore welcome to them . 
After the first few weeks they began to look upon him with suspicion . 
It was a curious political phenomenon . 
There were serious differences in the leadership even on basic issues . 
It called itself a socialist party , but it still believed in many Gandhian tactics like boycott of elections and legislatures and offices . 
There were also serious differences of opinion on many issues of tactics and strategy . 
He had earlier recommended collective affiliation , but had changed his view on closer thinking . 
That prompted Roy to get together his adherents in the Congress Into an organization . 
It held its inaugural conference in Poona in June 1938 . 
In the beginning it was expected that it would bring together all left groups in the Congress . 
The other left groups did not support him , but be won in the contest about ten per cent of votes . 
Roy attached great importance to his work in the Congress . 
He paid attention to the trade union movement as also to the movement of the people of the native States for responsible government . 
He delivered many lectures on Marxism and communism and social revolution . 
The CP was in the same camp until Hitler attacked Russia in June 1941 . 
Gandhiji 's first reaction was of unconditional support to England in her war against Nazi Germany . 
Had the decision been taken earlier , the freedom of many European countries would have been saved . '' 
He spent the next few months trying to persuade the Congress leaders not to adopt a hostile attitude towards the war . 
He addressed several meetings and talked to the people about guerrilla warfare and people 's defense committees . 
About this time industrial workers were running away from factories , fearing bombing and enemy reprisals . 
It was necessary to keep them at their places of work , so that production might continue unabated through propaganda and other reassuring activities . 
The government offered some financial help for this work . 
Roy accepted on behalf of the Federation the help that the government had offered . 
It was of the order of Rs 13COMMA000 a month . 
It continued for about two years . 
Roy was impervious to all this vile abuse and unjust criticism . 
A social revolution was taking place in all countries involved in the war . 
The defeat of fascist powers would , he was convinced , bring about the defeat of fascist elements in each country . 
No political scientist could have asked a better confirmation of the prophecies that he had made . 
The basic incentive of organic becoming is the struggle for survival . 
The beginning of man 's endless struggle for freedom lies in the animal struggle for survival . 
Many disillusioned communists had turned to religion after leaving communism ; many had reverted to liberalism or nationalism . 
Those ways were open to Roy . 
But instead of going back , he decided to go forward . 
He went beyond communism and discovered radical humanism . 
But that required long discussions arid patient arguments . 
Roy was anxious to retire from politics , settle down in Dehra Dun and devote himself completety to reading and writing . 
But politics did not leave him . 
The other is the new way of revolution that Roy has suggested . 
He discussed it at a study camp held in Dehra Dun in 1946 . 
The discussions at the camp laid the basis for the development of radical humanism . 
Roy 's contributions to the discussions are collected together in a book New Orientation published by the Renaissance Publishers of Calcutta . 
Radical humanism brought Roy nearer to Gandhi and his school of thought . 
There were now many similarities between the two . 
His friends in Europe and the USA were eagerly looking forward to his visit ; . 
Some of them were his old associates in the communist movement . 
They were eager to meet him and compare notes about their experiences and reactions to world events . 
His illness became more and more serious as days went by . 
It claimed him in the end on the night of 25 January 1954 , a little before the beginning of Republic Day . 
Roy 's death was mourned by all , by his friends as well as critics in India and in many other countries . 
Many meetings were held and many tributes were paid . 
THE most tedious task in scientific discussion is definition specially of abstract terms . 
The fifth and highest mode is that of absolute existence which religion knows as God . 
What we are concerned with is that all thinking people recognise some sort of ultimate standards or norms . 
All agree that one or the other of them is always the end of every moral action and the basis of every moral judgment . 
Cataclysmic phenomena which disturb the normal routine of the natural process are rare . 
No stronger natural accidents than storms and tempests of moderate intensity are experienced by the people . 
How has this long observation of regularity and continuity of natural processes influenced the Indian mind ? 
In primitive stages man does not distinguish at all between the moral and the physical world . 
His moral conceptions are based entirely on observation of nature . 
In other words , the law of its being is not revolution but evolution . 
The Indian mind is spared such violent jolts because its reaction to new ideas and movements is conscious and gradual . 
So agriculture was started here as soon as the crudest implements for tilling the soil were available . 
As a rule communities which took very early to agriculture are matriarchal and have a deep and strong feeling for family and social life . 
All those constructive qualities which are necessary for cultural development are more prominent in them than in communities which were originally nomadic . 
In the whole universe there was nothing but water . 
But the time was near when the confluence of the two was to give birth to the first national culture of India . 
The full costs of replacement , including improvement and escalation , were to be charged to the depreciation fund . 
As we have observed , Indian railways had reached the plateau in their expansion even before the First World War . 
Thus a phase of consolidation had been reached even by 1939 , and the war and the Partition made it imperative . 
There has been impressive , if not always enough , progress in this sector since 1950 . 
As a result , a serious power shortage was feared during the last phase of the Second Plan . 
The 1962 and 1965 military conflicts affected the power program , as indeed all Plan schemes , and the supply position deteriorated steadily . 
Apart from the grave hazard these plants pose , the cost of nuclear energy is considered prohibitive even in affluent countries . 
It was steady at this level following the steep rise in oil prices in the following years . 
After the initial success in Bombay High and Bassein North and South , the prospects in this area do not seem to be unlimited . 
This discovery has improved the prospects of finding oil on the east coast of India . 
Energy consumption in the country is low by world standards . 
It is increasing faster than GDP growth , but ironically this is a matter of concern as our resources are limited . 
Dependence on oil in the country is increasing , contrary to the global trend . 
Railway stock increased significantly and composition changed more rapidly an indication of the technological changes in the railway system . 
The progress towards dieselisation and , later , electrification , is reflected in the growing preponderance of diesel and electric locomotives . 
It has been decided to discontinue their manufacture and phase them out by the end of the century . 
The number of wagons increased rapidly during the first fifteen years of planning . 
With a tremendous backlog and multiplying transport needs , the progress made or envisaged must be considered utterly inadequate . 
He made the Durga Puja an occasion to fraternise with his fellowmen and in this his children also participated every year . 
Even as a mere boy of fifteen , Subhas Chandra wrote moving letters to his mother Prabhabati about his experiences in their native village . 
Moving in the footsteps of his father , Sarat Chandra went out of his way to promote village reconstruction work in Kodalia . 
Among them was M . 
Subhas was sent , as others before him , to the Protestant European School in Cuttack in 1902 for his primary education . 
Further , he was of the opinion that technical research should be free of governmental control of any kind . 
Fourthly , he advocated the setting up of a permanent National Research Council . 
There were three reasons why Subhas Chandra was unacceptable to the right wing of the Congress for a second term as President . 
The first was his unremitting campaign to stiffen the opposition to any compromise with Britain . 
He was prepared to step down provided another uncompromising national leader like Narendra Deva was chosen as the President . 
Pattabhi Sitaramayya , a nominee of the right wing , was set up against Subhas Chandra with the blessings of gandhi . 
Eventually , in the contest Subhas Chandra won with a comfortable majority of over two hundred votes . 
The All India Congress Committee was convened in Calcutta at the end of April 1939 . 
Unfortunately , no agreement or settlement was possible . 
Without mincing words , Subhas declared that India 's golden opportunity had arrived and she must now strike for freedom . 
Thus , two opposing viewpoints emerged out of the national mainstream at the most crucial moment of Indian history . 
The first all India conference of the Forward Bloc was held in Bombay on the 22nd June 1939 . 
Thus , Forward Bloc was launched in an atmosphere of buoyant optimism . 
The European war had then reached the most critical phase . 
Hitler had overrun almost the whole of Western Europe and Italy had joined the war . 
On his way back to Calcutta from Nagpur , Subhas called on gandhi at Sewagram and this was to be their last meeting . 
He appealed to Gandhiji once again to assume the leadership of the national struggle at that most opportune time . 
A year later , the Calcutta Corporation placed a plot of land in Subhas Chandra 's hands . 
He placed the proposal before the national poet Rabindra Nath Tagore and requested him to give a name to the proposed building . 
Tagore heartily approved of Subhas Chandra 's plan and gave the name '' Mahajati Sadan '' , in other wordsHouse of the Nation . 
While in prison , he was elected unopposed from a Dacca constituency in East Bengal to the Central Legislative Assembly . 
India could win independence only if she actively entered the field of international politics in the midst of the war crisis . 
He felt it would be a gross political blunder to remain inactive in prison while history was being made elsewhere . 
He found no possibility of being released in the legal manner . 
In this connection , he wrote a number of historic letters to the government , one of which he called his Political Testament . 
'' In this mortal world everything perishes and will perishbut ideas , ideals and dreams do not . 
At Peshawar , a transformation took place in Subhas Chandra 's disguise . 
The three travellers started their trek only a furlong away from the actual tribal border . 
They had to scale stiff mountains , parts of which were covered with snow . 
They rested for the next two nights at small villages on the way . 
There , they also established contact with an important political worker Hazi Mohammad Amin . 
On 30th January they set out for Kabul in a tonga . 
From there , they reached Kabul by a tonga at 11 a m on 31st January . 
In Kabul , both of them were complete strangers . 
Bhagat Ram , therefore , traced out an old acquaintance from Peshawar , Uttam Chand Malhotra who was doing business in Kabul . 
Here , he found friendly and comfortable shelter . 
Subhas Chandra 's first meeting with Quaroni lasted a whole night . 
Subhas was absolutely clear in his own mind as to the technique of his future struggle . 
Quaroni sent a favourable report to Rome . 
Arrangements were made that Mrs . 
From Samarkhand , they traveled by rail to Moscow , from where they flew to Berlin reaching there on the 2nd April 1941 . 
Subhas Chandra had written all these during his enforced stay in Kabul . 
In the circumstances , Subhas Chandra seized upon the principal element which kept British rule going in India , viz . 
He also outlined the nature of the work that had to be organised in Afghanistan , in the tribal territories and inside India . 
He also asked for facilities for radio propaganda directed towards India . 
He submitted a supplementary note to his original memorandum three weeks later . 
He pointed out the importance of an open declaration of the German government on the question of India 's independence . 
He also undertook a tour of other countries like Italy , France and Austria with a view to establishing friendly contacts and gaining adherents . 
The department was directed by Adam Von Trott who had been to Oxford as a student and was quite conversant with the Indian problem . 
Nevertheless , in furtherance of his strategic objectives he wanted to make the best of a rather unfavourable situation . 
Both inside the family and outside , the group aroused concern and opposition but to no avail . 
At this most critical period , Subhas felt more at home when away from home . 
He eagerly read all kinds of books on yogic practices , thinking that all that mattered was mental and spiritual exercise . 
Whenever a monk of any description came their way , Subhas and his group would rush to him . 
'' Father of our nation ! 
In this holy war for India 's liberation we ask for your blessings and good wishes '' . 
In October 1944 , Netaji was invited for consultations in Tokyo after a change in government there . 
This connection was to last several years . 
However , when results were published , it was found that Subhas Chandra had secured the second rank in the whole university . 
For a young student coming from a mofussil town , life in Calcutta was not necessarily a welcome change . 
In fact , it had been the ruin of many promising souls . 
However , Subhas came to Calcutta with certain ideas and principles fixed in his mind . 
The roads to Delhi are many and Delhi still remains our goal . 
Do not be depressed at our temporary failure . 
There is no power on earth that can keep India enslaved . '' 
He came to the irrevocable conclusion that the fundamental interests of the Indian people in colonial subjugation and those of British imperialism were irreconcilable . 
Therefore , any adjustment or compromise between these two forces was impossible . 
The Congress had been committed for many years to a policy of active opposition to British exploitation of India in imperialist wars anywhere . 
Threats to human freedom remain as ever before . 
Even as a human being and thinker , Netaji was seeking a new philosophya new ethical conception in human affairs . 
Indeed , it was when communities came into existence that some rules of conduct were brought in as well . 
Disrespect of community rules was tantamount to disrespect of the community . 
Lawbreakers were treated severely , and punishment was executed collectively . 
In ancient times , according to Vinogradoff , more emphasis was laid on solving problems than on the search for truth . 
Justice was administered by the king and Manu and Narada have compared the position of the king to that of a surgeon . 
It was the king 's duty to punish lawbreakers and ensure that conditions were conducive for the smooth functioning of society . 
Every person had the right to receive justice and it was the state which delivered it to him or her . 
But though powerful , the king , who symbolised the state , did not have the right to legislate . 
He was the upholder and promulgator of law and the administrator of justice . 
Thus , the establishment of order by punishing offenders was among the most useful and important duties of the ruler . 
As life was simple , the maintenance of law and order was well organised and courts were not necessary . 
Dispensing justice was his responsibility . 
In ancient India justice was administered according to the Smritis , and was one of the most important and obligatory functions of a king . 
It was his responsibility to protect the people through the proper and impartial administration of justice . 
Any indifference towards this important function was supposed to brihg calamity to the king himself as well as to his people . 
Ancient Indian jurists devoted a great deal of attention to evolving a law governing the administration of justice . 
The writings on the subject suggest that the seat of the highest court should be located in the capital city . 
Different Kinds of Courts in Ancient India The court presided over by a king was the highest court . 
Apart from the above , there was the Pratistitha , a court established at a particular village or town . 
Fines and corporal punishment could only be decided by the king . 
The people 's courts consisted of Panchayatdars . 
These had the authority to decide all civil and criminal cases except those that involved trial for an offence committed with violence . 
They had no authority to execute sentences of fines and corporal punishments . 
These matters had to go before the king who alone could approve and order the execution of such sentences . 
A Shreni could review the decision of a Kula and a Gana had the power to review the decision of a Shreni . 
The prerogative of the sovereign to function as the highest court of his kingdom was recognised . 
Yajnavalkya provides that the king may review and set aside a decision which has been wrongly given even by him . 
All the Dharmasastras and Smritis clearly enjoined that dispensation of justice was the highest Dharma of judges . 
This was also in conformity with the definition that '' law was the king of kings '' . 
The law received its sanction from the faith of the people and that of the king in Dharma . 
The Smritis prescribed that a spacious hall in the palace should be reserved for the king to hold court . 
Trees should be grown in the premises and water should be made available in the vicinity . 
At college , he began to neglect his studies because most of the lectures he found uninteresting . 
He was more interested in organising debates , collecting funds for flood and famine relief , going out on excursions etc . 
Such activities helped him to shed his introvert tendencies . 
He became increasingly aware of the inequity of the existing social system with affluence on the one hand and stark misery on the other . 
Such awareness made him a rebel against the system and led him to ponder deeply over the fundamentals of social relations . 
The king was supposed to be very attentive during the trial . 
There was a clear distinction between civil and criminal cases . 
In all civil matters , the king had to abide by the opinion of the judges if he was presiding over the court . 
If not , the verdict of the court itself was final , subject only to the review powers of the king . 
It is only in criminal cases that a special provision was made vesting the king with the power to fix the quantum of penalty . 
Kautilya 's Concept of Justice The judicial organization and legal procedures of the Mauryan period were based on the Arthasastra 's concept of law . 
This was the outcome of social and economic conditions of a particular country and the country 's capability to deal with those . 
He regarded Danda as the fountainhead of politics . 
Their main function was to dispose of such cases as arose out of violation of traditional rules and regulations . 
They could only impose nominal fines and their scope was limited to the application of Dharmasthiya laws . 
The Kantakasodhana was very important fitwn the social and constitutional points of view . 
It regulated various economic and social problems , and also demonstrated that the origin of the court lay in royal ordinances . 
Its jurisdiction included regulations for the police , public safety , criminal punishment and proceedings for simple as well as serious offences . 
The Kantakasodhana court falls into two main divisions as it relates to the urban and the rural respectively . 
Another important function of this court was to save the country from famines and epidemics . 
The local population was expected to be better acquainted with local problems . 
Thus , disputes about boundaries were to be settled by the village elders . 
A sense of public responsibility in all aspects of village-life village life was expected from every village . 
Offences against caste and religion were tried by committees , called Parishads . 
The Arthasastra simply speaks of the appointment of three Dharmasthas and three Amatyas for the court . 
It could not have been possible for this court to function everywhere specially to attend to cases at smaller units . 
He who is fatigued in administration of justice will not prosper . 
i the city judges were high ranking officers , that is , Mahamatras who dealt with many thousands of men ; 
iii the judges had to be impartial and were not to fall victim to the many dispositions enumerated or to anger or to hurry . 
In fact Ashoka 's judicial system was based on Niti which has been understood to be Dandaniti . 
The edict says that it is desirable that there be impartiality in judicial proceedings and punishments . 
Kautilya does not attach the same importance to popular courts as does Manu . 
In the former 's scheme , courts were instituted at Sangrahana , Dronamukha , Sthaniya and where districts met . 
Prior to Akbar 's reign traditional Muslim law was applied even in matters of judicial procedure . 
However , strict Islamic law came to an end in the eighteenth century , after the arrival of the British in India . 
The court of the emperor was the highest court of appeal , the supreme tribunal of the land . 
The imperial court consisted of the emperor himself , the Qazis , Muftis and Adils . 
Friday was a holiday . 
The Sadrs we 're the civil judges of the empire . 
His duty was to appoint a local Sadr in every province . 
The Sadr was required to see that those persons entitled to stipends carried out the imperial orders . 
He also noted their deaths . 
The emperor 's charities were distributed through the chief Sadr . 
Courts of Secular Cases These courts were not subordinate to the Qazi . 
They administered the unwritten customs , common law or tribal codes and had no concern with religious law . 
Cases in villages were decided by the village elders on the basis of the customs , practices and faiths of the parties . 
The caste courts decided the cases of parties belonging to the same caste , with social sanctions behind them . 
In the larger villages classed as Qasbas , a Qazi was appointed and he administered justice . 
The parties in the villages could take the cases to the Qazi of the neighbouring town in whose jurisdiction they lay . 
Even if the Qazis were appointed , the parties could go to trade guilds and communal courts . 
The Sultans of Delhi and the Mughal emperors did not find it profitable and practicable to interfere with these and therefore left them alone . 
Akbar recognised the village Panchayat as a legally established court of justice and upheld its decisions . 
He gave an official recognition to its activities . 
Pargana Courts The three types of Pargana courts were the Shiqdar , Qazi and Amin . 
The Shiqdar tried purely secular criminal cases . 
The Qazi tried civil , criminal and religious cases . 
The Amins decided revenue cases . 
The Pargana Qazi had the power to appoint his assistants in the different centres depending upon the needs of the locality . 
These assistants were called Naib Qazis . 
The Qazi 's duties were the same as mentioned earlier . 
The Amin was expected to help the Kotwal in his judicial and police duties . 
It seems that the Faujdar also dealt with criminal cases along with the Kotwal . 
The Qazi in a Sarkar was appointed on the recommendation of the chief Qazi of the province . 
The Kotwal nearly combined all the functions of the Muhatasib in addition to having judicial power . 
The police officers also had the power to mete out punishments . 
The Kotwal possessed judicial powers to deal with offences , particularly with regard to theft , etc . 
He possessed an equivalent jurisdiction with the Qazi in the above cases , but with certain exceptions . 
Moreover , he could use pressure , influence and strictness to accomplish his duties . 
He had powers to reprimand dishonest persons guilty of breach of trust . 
This is what Abu Hanifa says . 
He was a censor of morals , a municipal executive and a judge in certain types of cases with limited powers of punishment . 
iii Fix the price of goods in the market and enforce the use of correct weights and measures . 
The power of the censor as the officer to enforce the Prophet 's laws was supreme . 
There is an interesting case of enforcement of morals . 
The most notable trial of all was that of Sarmad , the eminent Sufi of Delhi . 
His only fault was his nakedness which is against Islam . 
Several early European travellers have left interesting accounts of the trials held by the Mughal emperors . 
However , encouragement to the sitar and its style came from the later half of the eighteenth century . 
The constitution of the Criminal Courts was also defective . 
Courts of Circuits composed of English judges , and of the Qazi and Mooftee , were instituted . 
Their powers were transferred to the Commissioners of Revenue who now became criminal judges in all cases of importance . 
But the task was found too heavy for them , and accordingly a Regulation of 1831 invested Zillah and city judges with criminal jurisdiction . 
The Act was a temporary measure and was repealed in 1872 . 
Many of the earlier Regulations were directed at removing some of the defects of the Mohamedan criminal jurisprudence . 
The Bombay Regulations gave precedence to local usage over written Hindu or Mohamedan law in the determination of civil rights . 
The same principle was subsequently applied to Punjab by the Punjab Laws Act of 1872 . 
i A combination of judicial and executive functions were vested in the same officer . 
iii A general absence of the system of trial by jury . 
India , produced the laws , or code of Manu , generally thought to date between the thirteenth and ninth centuries B . 
A foreigner who commits an offence on Indian soil is also liable to be prosecuted and can be punished if found guilty . 
He also tried his hand at youth organization for their physical , intellectual and moral advancement . 
He took active part in organising social events during religious ceremonies and pujas . 
While waiting for something to come up , he tried to get himself recruited to the 49th Bengal Regiment . 
He was disqualified because of defective vision . 
In every district , there are courts of Judicial Magistrates of first class and second class . 
The Sessions Court is subordinate to the High Court . 
The state government can appoint Additional District Magistrates . 
In default of payment of fines , the court can pass a further sentence of imprisonment . 
A Magistrate of the first class has wider jurisdiction and powers than a second class Magistrate . 
Sessions Court Immediately above the Magistrate Courts are the Sessions Court presided over by judges called Sessions Judges . 
A Sessions Judge also hears appeals from the orders of first class Magistrates . 
Sessions Judges also exercise revisional powers similar to those exercised by first class Magistrates . 
The jurisdiction of every criminal court to try a particular offence is derived from the statute . 
The main functions of the High Court , however , are to hear appeals , revisions and references . 
All persons convicted by Sessions Judges are entitled to appeal to the High Court . 
Appeals by the State against acquittal also lie only to the High Court when the order of acquittal is passed by a Sessions Judge . 
Revision cases sent up by the District Magistrates or Sessions Judges are the exclusive concern of the High Court . 
These are the three main tiers in our Criminal Courts . 
Procedure The procedure for criminal trials is provided in the Criminal Procedure Code . 
The accused is called before the court and the charge is explained to him . 
Some other offences , also of a minor nature , are tried as summon cases . 
If he professes innocence , the Magistrate proceeds to hear the evidence against him . 
The accused can then make another statement and call for defense evidence . 
The more serious offences are tried as warrant cases . 
The procedure for dealing with these is slightly different . 
A Sessions trial is held by the Sessions Judge . 
After the evidence in the case has been recorded and arguments heard , the Sessions Judge addresses the accused . 
After hearing the parties or their advocates , the judge determines whether the accused is guilty or not . 
Costs In criminal cases no costs are awarded to the prosecution against the convicted person . 
The costs are borne by the State or the parties . 
TRIAL COURT APPELLATE COURT i 
Similarly , appeals from the original orders and judgements of the District Courts and the Additional District Courts lie to the High Court . 
The memorandum of appeal should be precise in stating the substantial question of law involved in the appeal . 
However , the aggrieved party can always approach the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution . 
The High Court may make such order in the case as it deems fit . 
Apart from provisions for appeals and revisions , there are provisions in the Code of review of a judgement or decree . 
i by a decree or order from which an appeal is allowed by this Code , but from which no appeal has been preferred ; 
Appeals to the Supreme Court are also provided under Section 109 of the Code in the following cases . 
Third year in college was given to soldiery . 
In the fourth year , Subhas studied in right earnest and in 1919 took his B . 
One evening his father called him to his room where he also found his elder brother Sarat Chandra . 
He took counsel with himself and within a few hours made up his mind to accept the offer . 
Once again , his plans had been upset by the superior force of circumstances . 
He could not even dream of passing the Indian Civil Service Examination and accepting a job under the British Government . 
ticles 132 , 133 and 136 of the Constitution of India . 
Similarly , local languages can be used in the proceedings and judgements in subordinate courts . 
The central government as well as the state governments are also subject to the jurisdiction of the civil courts in all civil matters . 
These are pretrial only in the sense that they are preparatory to the trial and intended to reduce the area of controversy . 
i delivery and answering of interrogatories ; 
ii admission and denial of documents and facts ; 
iii discovery , inspection and production of documents ; 
iv temporary injuction and appointment of Receiver or Commissioner . 
Commission may also be issued to any other court within the country and a letter of request to courts outside India . 
The prescribed procedure also permits issue of warrant to arrest a recalcitrant person or a defendant and or require him to give security . 
The activist judges believe in exercising their power , authority and influence in rendering positive and effective justice between the parties . 
They may also ' persuade ' parties to settle their dispute amicably . 
In this process the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act govern the trial . 
There are stringent rules as to relevancies and the kind of questions that may be put without objection . 
As indicated above , some judges sometimes do question the witness with a view to advancing justice . 
A witness may be declared ' hostile ' if he appears to be deliberately deposing against the party who summoned him . 
Administratively , however , the Chief Justice has some special functions and powers which the puisne judges do not have . 
A Judge of the High Court holds office until he attains the age of 62 . 
Appeal from a decision of the writ court lies to the Supreme Court and can take more than ten years . 
Advocate General Like the Attorney General , the highest law officer in the state is called the Advocate General . 
What greatly impressed him in England was the freedom , respect and prestige enjoyed by the student community . 
This , he thought , had a very salutary effect on their character . 
There were certain qualities of Englishmen which he admitted and about which he wrote back to friends at home . 
The two assignments , working simultaneously for the Civil Service Examination and the Cambridge Tripos left him without any time for relaxation . 
It was said that Subhas 's physical presence would bring about sobriety among even the most wayward among them . 
He carried on regular correspondence with his friends at home , narrating his experiences and giving them information about life and conditions in England . 
Whenever any eminent Indian visited England and lectured at the universities or the Indian Majlis , Subhas was an enthusiastic organiser . 
He felt very proud when any Indian visiting lecturer distinguished himself . 
There were nine major subjects including political science , economics , English , history and modern European history . 
The Tribunal acts with the aid of assessors who are selected from a panel prepared by the central government . 
This panel includes representatives of trade , industry , agriculture and persons who have a working knowledge of the railways . 
A party before , the Tribunal is entitled to be heard in person or through an authorised agent including a lawyer . 
The appeal against the order of the Tribunal lies to Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution . 
Apart from punishment , the Act also provides for forfeiture of the property of such persons . 
The central or state government can appoint one or more additional judges for the designated court . 
These designated courts have been given exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under this Act . 
In interlocutory orders , the accused can approach the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution . 
Claimants were put to a great deal of iriconvenience because of the long time taken in deciding compensation claims . 
In addition , the victim or injured party also had to pay court fees . 
It provides expeditious and summary procedure to be adopted by the Claims Tribunal . 
Under the Act more than one Claims Tribunal can be set up and their territorial jurisdiction is specified by notification constituting the Tribunals . 
The claims tribunal consists of such member or members as the government may find desirable . 
The vehicle should be mechanically propelled and the accident should be the result of such use or misuse . 
The claim for damage to property can be filed independently even without there being any bodily injury . 
In such a case , the option lies with the claimant to choose one or the other Tribunal . 
The rapid growth of industry in India has also meant the introduction of new and sophisticated machinery . 
Given that many of the people who work these machines are often poor and illiterate , there can be the danger of accidents . 
The Workmens ' Compensation Act 1923 thus provides a machinery for quick disposal of disputes relating to compensation . 
The power of civil courts to settle or deal with cases which are to be settled by the Commissioner is thus taken away . 
Commissioners are appointed by notifications in the Official Gazette by the state government for a particular area or areas . 
More than one Commissioner can be appointed in one area ; in such cases the Commissioners ' business is regulated by notification between them . 
The parties can settle the claim among themselves and get it recorded . 
He then requires the particular employer to deposit the prescribed amount . 
From early times , the decisions of Panchayats were accepted as binding . 
From the decision of the Puga , appeal was maintainable to Pradvivaca and finally to the sovereign and the prince . 
The arbitrators must give their award within four months . 
The umpire has also to give award within four months . 
Such reference is called reference by the court . 
The judgement , which is called an award , is given by the arbitrators . 
No appeal has been provided from such an award to any court . 
Such Lok Adalats are now being held by various government departments such as the Electricity Boards , the Telephone Department , etc . 
If properly used , Lok Adalats can be a useful institution . 
Like any other courts and tribunals , such Adalats can also be abused by the parties lawyers authorities politicians . 
The institution of the village Panchayat has a long history in India . 
Subhas wanted the Congress to open an Intelligence Department and a Propaganda Department . 
Booklets were to be published in all the languages of India on each and every question of Indian national life . 
The result was a stalemate . 
The latter half of 1921 , marked a great advance for the Congress in Bengal in which Subhas Chandra played a very significant role . 
Gandhiji had given to the party a new constitution under which the organization acquired a mass base . 
The year 1922 began in an uncertain but excited mood . 
The Congress rose to the occasion and rushed to the succor of stricken humanity with Subhas Chandra Bose leading the first batch of volunteers . 
At the Gaya Congress , which Subhas attended , Deshbandhu 's proposal was defeated . 
His position as the President , therefore , became rather anomalous . 
Pandit Motilal led the party in the Central Assembly while Deshbandhu did the same in the Bengal Council . 
In Calcutta , Deshbandhu launched his English daily paper Forward after the Delhi Congress and entrusted Subhas with its organization . 
Within a short time , Forward became one of the leading nationalist dailies of the country . 
His appointment caused much annoyance to the Government and they gave their approval after a great deal of hesitation . 
Deshbandhu 's mayoral address was in the nature of a charter of civic rights , civic progress and civic freedom . 
Subhas Chandra 's task was to convert the program into concrete action . 
Even children 's clinics were started in different parts of Calcutta from where free milk was distributed to needy children . 
The Chief Executive Officer showed remarkable agility in his work schedule . 
Within a few months , Subhas was able to give a new orientation and momentum to the administration of the Corporation . 
To promote civic consciousness among citizens , a weekly journal , the Calcutta Municipal Gazette , was started . 
A commercial museum was established with the purpose of promoting Indian goods . 
As Congress volunteers moved on Tarakeswar , the Government came out heavily on the side of autocratic Mohant and attacked them mercilessly . 
In spite of serious opposition , Deshbandhu was able to carry the day and have Bengal Pact ratified . 
Deshbandhu and Subhas had similar views on revolutionary terrorism and violence . 
Thus , such acts were inevitable explosions in the course of a national liberation struggle . 
Towards the end of 1926 , the legislatures were dissolved and fresh elections announced . 
The Bengal Congress set up Subhas Chandra as their candidate from a north Calcutta constituency . 
He had a strong opponent in the leader of the Liberals in Bengal who had defeated the Swarajist candidate in the previous election . 
Adverse conditions of prison life and unfavourable climate together with the hunger strike of 1926 led to rapid deterioration in Subhas Chandra 's health . 
He could not shake off persistent temperature following an attack of pneumonia and lost weight rapidly . 
He was taken to Rangoon for examination by a medical board which recommended that he should not be kept in prison . 
They offered to release him if he would board a ship bound for Europe from Rangoon without touching Indian shores . 
He confined himself to the propagation of khadi and constructive work among the depressed classes . 
The Swaraj Party disintegrated steadily after Deshbandhu 's death . 
Deshbandhu 's dynamic leadership had brought together diverse elementsrightist , centrist and leftistunder the banner of the party . 
His death led the dissimilar elements to seek new moorings according to ideological inclinations . 
His first task was to get well as quickly as possible and return to active public life . 
The Madras Congress adopted a resolution boycotting the Simon Commission '' at every stage and in every form '' . 
A proposal . 
What is more , the Congress defined the goal of the Indian people to be complete national independence . 
The newly emerging youth movement in India exercised a definite influence on Congress policy from this point onwards . 
In Bengal , the Congress under Subhas 's leadership went a step further by organising an intensive campaign for boycott of British goods . 
They continued to be General Secretaries of the Congress . 
The Independence of India League had its echo in a very important area of national life , viz , the students ' movement . 
The need was , therefore , felt for an organization of students themselves that would fight for and defend their rights . 
Thereafter , students ' organizations grew up all over Bengal and in due course in other provinces of the country as well . 
As the year progressed , the political barometer continued to rise in India and it affected the world of labor also . 
There was already a strike among railway workers at Kharagpur near Calcutta , the year before . 
Organisation of youth engaged Subhas 's equal attention . 
He pleaded to them again and again for the adoption of modern ideas and methods in building the new India of their dreams . 
He said that the Madras resolution had given new prestige to India in international politics which they could not afford to lose . 
Secondly , politics of Europe and Asia and the race for armaments amongst the imperialist powers were all pointing to an approaching world conflagration . 
Subhas Charxdra 's amendment was defeated by 973 votes to 1350 . 
The only silver lining , according to Subhas , was that the left wing had gained enough strength in the Congress . 
Evidently , he was playing for time and preparing himself for the fight ahead . 
On the other hand , during 1929 new developments took place in three definite directions which helped to maintain the morale of the people . 
Subhas Chandra , who was closely associated with the Defence Committee , actively assisted in the defense of the prisoners . 
When the Governor dissolved the Council and ordered fresh elections , the Congress party returned with added strength . 
The remarkable organising ability of Subhas and his associates in the Congress party was also seen in the field of journalism . 
However , notwithstanding their popularity we are still faced with the problems of their beginnings and migrations . 
They fought their last battle as free men in 1857 under the flag of the last Moghul Emperor Bahadur Shah . 
After their defeat in this First War of Independence , the governance of India was taken over directly by the British Crown in 1858 . 
'' I am an extremist and my principle isall or none ' . 
Differences came to a head a month before the Lahore Congress when elections to the Bengal Congress Committee were held . 
There was a keen contest and the group led by Bose won . 
This resulted in a split in the party on the basis of political principles and policy . 
By such means , the British government expected to get the Indians to go on fighting amongst themselves instead of presenting a united front . 
In Gujarat , the United Provinces and Bengal , the situation was particularly unsatisfactory . 
He also had long talks with the new Viceroy . 
A British Socialist writer Brailsford told Subhas Chandra after a visit that the situation in the United Provinces was verging on an agrarian revolution . 
Soon after his arrival , gandhi wrote to Lord Willingdon seeking clarification of the real attitude of the Government . 
The Viceroy sent a negative and unfriendly reply . 
The Congress Working Committee , thereupon , adopted a resolution which the Viceroy found unacceptable and declined to see Gandhiji . 
The stage was , thus , set for the resumption of the second civil disobedience movement . 
In the first week of January 1932 , the British Government launched its offensive against the Congress and nationalist organizations throughout India . 
As Gandhiji fasted in his prison cell in Poona , frantic appeals were sent to him from all quarters to desist . 
The Poona Pact was conveyed to the British Government which found no alternative other than to recommend its endorsement to Parliament . 
As in 1930 , Subhas Chandra watched the march of events in 1932 from behind the prison bars . 
He felt strongly that the British Government had this time definitely got the better of the Congress . 
As during his exile in Burma , he was reduced to a skeleton . 
In the enforced absence of Sarat Chandra , his wife Bivabati carried on negotiations on Subhas 's behalf with the government in Delhi . 
He lectured at many places on the Indian national movement , Indian history , civilization and culture . 
He sought the moral support of all classes of people in these countries for India 's struggle against British imperialism . 
He found a great deal of sympathy for India 's cause in Poland and stimulated the interest of Polish friends in India 's struggle . 
He was a great philanthropist , deeply religious and a patron of khadi , Swadeshi and national educational institutions . 
She dominated the entire domestic scene and ran a large household with exemplary competence . 
During one of his visits to Rome , Subhas Chandra had an interesting conversation with Mussolini . 
The latter asked him whether Subhas really and firmly believed that India would soon be free . 
Mussolini then asked whether he believed in reformist or revolutionary methods for achieving independence . 
Thereupon , Mussolini said , '' Then indeed you have a chance '' . 
He saw that India and Turkey had many problems in common and both needed several similar social reforms . 
He was particularly interested to see how Kemal Ataturk modernized an oriental state by inducting technological and military skill from Germany . 
In the process of his investigations and study , Subhas became an ardent admirer of Kemal Ataturk . 
Towards the end of 1934 , Subhas Chandra received news that his father Janakinath was critically ill . 
The family desired that he should fly to India to be at his father 's bedside . 
He left for India soon but arrived late by a day and a half . 
His father had passed away and his last wish was not fulfilled . 
As soon as he arrived in Calcutta , Subhas was interned in his house on Elgin Road . 
During his exile in Europe , Subhas Chandra wrote the first and major part of his substantive work The Indian Struggle . 
He wrote it in a little over a year when his health was far from satisfactory . 
While in Europe , Subhas Chandra availed of the opportunity to study the Irish experience at close quarters . 
On comparative study , Subhas discovered and confirmed interestingly similar political trends in the independence movements of Ireland and India . 
It was from Berlin that Subhas Chandra took the first steps to establish personal contact with de Valera . 
The Congress Socialist Party emerged on the national platform in India in 1934 when Subhas was in Europe . 
It must stand for the complete political and economic liberation of the Indian people . 
It must rely on a sound system of state planning and work for reorganisation of the agricultural and industrial life of the country . 
The Indian movement was essentially a nationalist movementa movement for the national liberation of the Indian people . 
In 1935 , Subhas Chandra had to undergo a major surgical operation for the removal of a diseased gallbladder . 
His doctors had finally found the root of his ailments . 
Of the intellectuals Subhas met in Europe was Remain Rolland , the great French savant and friend of India . 
In early 1936 , Subhas Chandra felt that he had sufficiently recovered his health and planned to return home . 
He was particularly keen to attend the Congress session to be held a few months later in Lucknow under the presidentship of Jawaharlal Nehru . 
Sometime later , he was transferred to Kurseong near Darjeeling and detained in his brother Sarat 's bungalow there . 
The same house had served as the detention camp for Sarat Chandra himself earlier during the civil disobedience movement . 
Towards the end of the year , he was removed to Calcutta and admitted to the Calcutta Medical College as a security prisoner . 
A series of medical examinations were carried out to determine the cause of the recurrence of his ailments . 
The vindictive treatment of Subhas Chandra was widely condemned throughout the country . 
The village still carries the name of Subuddhipur . 
As Purandar and his forbears functioned as ministers for generations , they wielded great influence and prestige as a family . 
And because Purander was a resident of Mahinagar , the place became the nerve center of the Kayasthas of South Bengal . 
The workers used to pile up their spades , called Kodal in Bengali , after their day 's work at a place adjoining Mahinagar . 
At this place grew up the village Kodalia where Janakinath was born and which eventually became the abode of his family . 
Janakinath and his children including Subhas Chandra were deeply attached to Kodalia . 
Till the end of his days , Janakinath maintained close links with the village and worked for its social upliftment . 
In a meeting with R . 
Subhas Chandra returned to India in the last week of January 1938 . 
The session at Haripura was to be the fifty first annual assembly of the Congress . 
He pointed out that the same principle of partition was present in the new Indian constitution introduced in India by the British government . 
Moreover , Britain was no longer the Mistress of the Seas . 
Fifthly , he made a strong plea for developing international contacts and an independent foreign policy for India . 
In the development of international relations , personal contacts were necessary and Indian students abroad could help in this work considerably . 
Promotion of cultural and educational contacts was another , important means of making India known throughout the world . 
We are therefore fighting not for the cause of India alone but of humanity as well . 
As Congress President Subhas Chandra toured the country extensively . 
He tackled a ministerial crisis in the Central Provinces skilfully . 
In Assam , his personal intervention led to the removal of the Muslim League Government and its replacement by a Congress Ministry . 
Subhas Chandra felt deeply that Congressmen must be fully conscious of their responsibility in the matter of achieving national unity and solidarity . 
He wanted India to go the way of Turkey , not of China . 
In studies , he was always at the top though he did badly in sports . 
Thereafter , when he moved to the Ravenshaw Collegiate School , a complete mental and psychological change came upon him . 
But he made good this deficiency by working hard and eventually scoring the highest marks in Bengali in the first annual examination . 
What is more , he started learning Sanskrit with zest . 
But sports still remained the neglected area of his activity , a fact which he regretted for the rest of his life . 
You have come to absorb varied experience during these years . 
Today you bring your matured mind and irrepressible vitality to bear upon the work at hand . 
Meanwhile , a civil disobedience campaign launched by the Forward Bloc in April 1940 was gathering momentum . 
Two court cases were also started against him on charges of sedition . 
One individual may die for an idea , but that idea , after his death incarnates itself in a thousand lives ... 
'' What greater solace can there be than the feeling that one has lived and died for a principle ? 
Subhas Chandra started his fast at the end of November 1940 , on the day of Kali Puja . 
Initially , the government took a very stiff attitude and did not even care to reply to his ultimatum . 
The nephew was readily available and Subhas drew the young man into the plan . 
He started discussing in great detail with Sisir the possible methods of escaping from the house in utmost secrecy . 
Sisir was told that one other person , Subhas 's young niece Ila would know about his secret departure . 
Meanwhile , in response to a telegraphic message , Mian Akbar Shah had arrived from Peshawar . 
Mian Akbar Shah would be in charge of arrangements for Subhas 's journey across the tribal territories through Afghanistan . 
Sarat Chandra made certain changes in the overall plan and gave the final touches . 
His room was curtained off into compartments . 
The same cordiality prevailed in the Bose household where a number of Oriyas , both Hindus and Muslims , were in domestic service . 
Subhas Chandra 's parents were known for their liberality of mind and compassion and they directly influenced the entire family . 
The latter instilled into his pupil 's growing mind '' aesthetic and ethical values '' . 
The teacher told his pupil that in human life moral values counted for more than anything else . 
He asked him to surrender himself completely to Nature and let Nature speak to him . 
Subhas Chandra was around fifteen years old when he entered one of the stormiest periods in his mental and psychical life . 
When most members of the family had retired to their rooms , Subhas Chandra made final preparations to leave . 
Sisir arrived around 9 p m 
He had in his cara sturdy German vehicle WandererSubhas 's travel cases marked prominently with ' M . 
Although , the government was compelled to release Subhas unconditionally , he was very closely watched day and night . 
It is now known that the police department even planted a number of agents inside the house although their identities are not yet known . 
Thus , he was aware of what the police department knew about him and from what sources . 
The two travellers had a thrilling drive up the Grand Trunk Road in bright moonlight . 
Sarat Chandra 's eldest son Asoke lived at Barari with his family . 
Sisir dropped his uncle about half a mile away from Asoke 's bungalow and drove nonchalantly into the house alone . 
He alerted his brother about the impending arrival of their uncle in disguise . 
Subhas Chandra arrived some time later alone and introduced himself as an insurance-agent insurance agent on business . 
A mock drama was enacted in the presence and within the hearing of Asoke 's domestic servants . 
All conversation was in English and Asoke even formally introduced Sisir to the stranger . 
The arrangement was that Subhas would take the Frontier Mail from Delhi and arrive at Peshawar on 19th January 1941 . 
He asked the tonga walla to take him to the Dean 's Hotel while he followed in another tonga . 
On the way , they changed their mind and took him to mahal Hotel . 
Akbar Shah was walking back through the Peshawar city when he met an old trusted friend Abad Khan whom he took into confidence . 
Abad Khan had long previous experience of such secret journeys . 
They looked for a Serai and were guided to one near the Lahori Gate . 
For food , they had bread dipped in sweet tea . 
In Kabul , Subhas Chandra carried on his deaf and dumb show in the serai near Lahori Gate . 
Both Subhas Chandra and Bhagat Ram felt that it was becoming too risky to stay on in the serai . 
It took nearly four weeks to obtain a positive answer from the Soviet side . 
Another transformation in his disguise was to take place from being a deaf and dumb Pathan to an Italian diplomat . 
Next morning , Subhas Chandra left in a car for the Soviet frontier accompanied by three Germans . 
They crossed the Oxus at the Afghan frontier post and drove along until they reached Samarkhand . 
It was at this point , when he was barely fifteen , that Swami Vivekananda entered his life . 
He had by a chance of circumstance stumbled upon the Swami 's works . 
He devoured them avidly and a mental revolution took place . 
He found what he was groping for , a central principle on which he could hang his whole life . 
Subhas accepted the modern interpretation given to the ancient scriptures by the Swami that faith and strength alone could lead to salvation . 
Subhas Chandra was also accorded the appellation of '' Netaji '' which combined a sense of both affection and honor . 
Subhas Chandra started broadcasting to India in February 1942 soon after the fall of Singapore . 
India will now rise and break the chains of servitude that have bound her so long . 
Through India 's liberation will Asia and the world move forward towards the larger goal of human emancipation '' . 
The Indian Legion was an entirely volunteer army . 
They were recruited on the basis of patriotic inspiration and education often conducted by Netaji himself among Indian war prisoners . 
Two days later , he spoke for the last time to the Indian Legion . 
He told his brother that he was embarking on the most hazardous voyage and that he might not come through it alive . 
As soon as the two of them entered the vessel , the doors closed and it disappeared under the sea . 
Netaji had his berth in a recess along a passage . 
Even the food was stinking of diesel oil . 
Netaji had to spend three months in such an environment . 
Every night , the submarine had to come up and sail on the surface to have its batteries charged . 
Even under the most trying living conditions in the submarine , Netaji did not rest even for a day . 
From the first day , he started his work on the many plans he had for the coming struggle in East Asia . 
And all this had to be done , as was his habit , with thoroughness and to the minutest detail . 
As a desperate measure , two men jumped into the sea from the German submarine and swam to the Japanese . 
Signalling between the boats then went on by show of hands , but the sea continued to be rough . 
He met leading personalities of all branches of Japan armed forces , important political and diplomatic personnel , intellectuals and public men of standing . 
In November 1943 , Netaji attended the Assembly of Greater East Asiatic Nations in Tokyo . 
Nevertheless , he completely dominated the conference by the sheer force of his personality , robust independence , sincerity and oratory . 
Finally , Premier Tojo made an announcement at the conference that the andaman Islands which were then under Japanese military occupation would be transferred . 
Before finally returning to Singapore in December , Netaji toured China , Philippines and Indonesia . 
As Head of State , he unfurled the National Tricolour in the presence of a massive gathering on Gymkhana grounds . 
He likened the liberation of Andaman to the fall of Bastille during the French Revolution . 
He visited the notorious Cellular Jail where the British had imprisoned and tortured hundreds of India 's freedom fighters . 
In the last week of April , they were already within ten miles of Imphal in a remarkable encircling movement . 
The road to Delhi is the road to Freedom ! 
Chalo Delhi ! '' 
He also made a large donation to the government of Thailand for the facilities offered to the Azad Hind Fauj . 
By the time Netaji returned to Rangoon at the end of November 1944 , the military situation had deteriorated much further . 
There was continuous bombardment from the air by enemy planes and on the ground . 
When Netaji heard that certain I . 
The Japanese were compelled to comply . 
He had , therefore , to march miles and miles in the company of the brave women soldiers and his personal staff . 
There are many more rounds to fight ... 
'' I have to leave Burma in order to continue the struggle for India 's liberation ... 
My unshakable faith in India 's early emancipation remains unimpaired . '' 
It was further reported that Netaji passed away the same night at the military hospital at Taihoku . 
Many in India still do not accept the report of his death to be authentic . 
Such declarations set the tone and the temper of the Indian people in regard to Netaji and the INA . 
After the defeat of the August rebellion and the Azad Hind crusade , a sense of frustration and despondency had gripped the nationalist forces . 
It was in the Vedic age that the conception of Rita , the existence of an order in nature , developed . 
In Vedic times , the Sabha and Samiti played a vital role in the judicial sphere . 
They also increased the judicial powers of the king . 
The lower courts were also established under royal authority . 
There were people 's courts which had the power to decide disputes at village level . 
The qualifications of judges and other officers of the court were prescribed . 
The appointment of experts as assessors to assist the court on technical questions , whenever necessary , was also provided for . 
Laws of procedure and of evidence were laid down . 
Popular tribunals , particularly the village courts , survived for a long time and existed even at the time British rule began in India . 
Their continuance was favored by their antiquity as there were practically no other effective tribunals within easy reach . 
The principal functions discharged by such tribunals were conciliatory and local rulers did not usually interfere in their working . 
The king was invested with the power to pass final decrees . 
The Smritis furnish the basis for passing a decree . 
Gold and fire were kept for purposes of administering oaths . 
detection of youths of criminal tendency ; 
vi seizure of criminals on suspicion ; 
vii examination of sudden deaths ; 
viii cases of sexual intercourse with immoral women ; 
ix punishments for violating justice ; and x trials of torture in instances of illicit confession . 
Another point to note is that Kautilya always speaks of a bench of judges , not a court presided over by a single judge . 
This decentralisation of the administration of justice was favored probably because it avoided delay and other complications connected with the investigation of cases . 
The Mauryan judicial system continued unchanged till the death of Bindusara . 
Such officers were called Rajjukas , Mahamatras and the Pradesikan . 
The responsibilities of Rajjukas increased as they were entrusted with the executive and judicial powers . 
From the Pillar Edict IV of Ashoka it is known that criminal offences involved arrest , imprisonment and death sentences as punishment . 
According to Hiuen Tsang , in his early career Ashoka was a cruel ruler who had constructed a jail that was called Hell . 
The edicts bear witness to the rigor of the early judicial system of the emperor . 
The Rock Edict I of Dhauli refers to some aspects of the judiciary under Ashoka . 
They toured various places in upper India , places of historical interest and also traditional educational institutions . 
They visited many ' Ashramas ' and met many ' Sadhus ' . 
What shocked young Subhas was the casteism and sectarianism practised by protagonists of religion at such holy places . 
In the course of his tour , he met Swami Brahmananda at the Ramakrishna Mission at Benares who knew the family quite well . 
A few days later , he was down in bed with typhoid fever . 
This is quite different today . 
Panchayat courts were not under the control of any Qazi , Governor or District Officer . 
Panchayat members were elected by the people . 
The Panchas or judges were those who had rendered some notable service to the village community . 
The Panchas were supposed to possess the divine quality of rendering true justice and their authority was more moral than strictly legal or administrative . 
Public opinion was the major sanction behind their authority . 
The administration of justice by Panchayats was appreciated by early British administrators in India . 
The rule during Akbar 's regime was that the judges must try to find out the facts of a case by every possible means . 
Statements of witnesses alone were not regarded as sufficient . 
As he lay in bed , the first world war broke out . 
They exhibited racial arrogance and superiority in the streets , in railway trains , in public transport , etc . 
But very unfortunately , the Principal declined to withdraw the penal measure he had imposed on the students in the shape of a fine . 
The same professor again manhandled a student of first year class . 
Sensing that constitutional measures like protests and strikes would be futile , some students took the law into their own hands . 
The government closed the college immediately and set up an Enquiry Committee to go into the continued disturbances in that institution . 
Some men demand punishment for murderers , others complain of injustice and violence 
Characteristics of Mughal Justice Mughal justice , especially in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , was quick , inexpensive and largely based on facts . 
The principal criminal courts were of the Nawab and his deputy , and of the Faujdars . 
In the confusion , the Principal fell out with the Government and was placed under suspension . 
The Governing Body confirmed the Principal 's order and expelled him from the college . 
He appealed to the University for permission to study in some other college but was refused . 
He was , thus , virtually rusticated from the university . 
Subhas represented the students ' case before the committee . 
He narrated in detail the misdeeds of the Britishers in Presidency College . 
These regulations had the effect of separation of the executive and legislative from the judicial authority of the State . 
powered by a Regulation of 1793 to decide civil suits of the value not exceeding Rs 50 . 
ii Register Courts , empowered to try causes for amounts not exceeding Rs 200 , when authorised by the judges . 
tained by the Charters of the High Courts in subsequent years . 
The family , therefore , thought it prudent to send Subhas back to Cuttack where , they thought , there was comparative safety . 
He did not immediately realise the significance of the tragic event . 
Strangely , some members of the group with whom he worked thought he had gone too far . 
But he stood firm , determined to face the consequences . 
The draft was completed in 1838 but it was not till 1860 that it was passed into law . 
The first edition of the Code of Civil Procedure was passed in 1859 , followed by the Code of Criminal Procedure in 1861 . 
Substantially , the entire criminal law of India was codified , but the codification of civil laws was far from complete . 
There were three difficulties which stood in the way of codification of Hindu and Mohamedan laws . 
Magistrates of all the three classes were to be appointed by the local government and acted in subordination to the magistrate of the district . 
The local government could divide a district into divisions and place a Magistrate of the first or second class in charge of a division . 
i foreign sovereigns ; 
ii ambassadors and members of the diplomatic corps enjoying immunity ; 
iii alien enemies ; 
iv foreign armies ; 
V warships ; and vi the President and the Governor under Article 361 of the Constitution . 
The Criminal Procedure Code is mainly an objective law of procedure . 
Its object is to provide machinery for punishment of offences against substantive criminal law , for example , the Indian Penal Code . 
In fact , this Code is to be read together with the Indian Evidence Act . 
The machinery provided in the Code is also the same for local offences under Acts other than the IPC . 
i constitution of Criminal Courts and offices ; 
The High Court can also appoint more Judicial Magistrates of the first class , who are designated as Additional Chief Judicial Magistrates . 
They have the power of the Chief Judicial Magistrate . 
i While Judicial Magistrates are appointed by the High Court , Executive Magistrates are appointed by the state in consultation with the High Court . 
However , any order made by an Executive Magistrate is subject to the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court or a Sessions Judge . 
iii Additional public prosecutors appointed by the state or central government . 
iv Special public prosecutors appointed by the central government . 
The salary and all other allowances are paid by the central and or state governments . 
The Criminal Procedure Code lays down the qualifications , the manner and method of appointing such prosecutors . 
Their object should be to aid the court to arrive at the truth . 
The ideal public prosecutor is not concerned with securing convictions or with satisfying departments of the government which he she represents . 
Rather , they are agents of justice . 
There should be , on their part , no unseeming eagerness to grasp at convictions . 
The High Court is the highest in every state for the adjudication of disputes . 
High Courts have civil criminal , original and appellate jurisdiction . 
In actual fact , they constitute one class although the amount in dipsute over which they have jurisdiction differs . 
All courts in the states are subordinate to the High Court and the District Court is the highest court in every district . 
In the case of subordinate lower courts , their jurisdiction depends entirely on the value of the ` suit . 
For the purposes of jurisdiction , this is calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Suits Valuation Act and its rules . 
The proceedings under the Indian Divorce Act , the Succession Act , etc . 
These values are fixed by the state government from time to time . ' 
The District Judge exercises administrative control over all Civil Courts within the local limits of his jurisdiction . 
Normally , the evidence is taken down in shorthand if this facility is available , otherwise in longhand . 
The judgement is recorded by giving findings on each issue and ultimately the conclusion is recorded which is called a ' decree ' . 
Normally against each judgement there are three or four appeals . 
A berth was somehow secured in a boat leaving Calcutta for England in a week 's time and a passport quickly obtained . 
It meant a break with the past and surging forward . 
He set sail for England on the 15th September 1919 . 
When Subhas Chandra left for England , he knew that he would get barely eight months to prepare for the Indian Civil Service Examination . 
Moreover , because of his age that would be his first and last chance . 
However , the Civil Service Examination being so near , he devoted practically his whole time to preparing for that . 
There is another important jurisdiction of the Supreme Court , namely entertainment of writs under Article 32 for the protection of fundamental rights . 
This power has been widely exercised and its scope was further enlarged recently by entertaining a type of litigation commonly called Public Interest Litigation . 
The primary task of the Supreme Court is appellate . 
In that capacity it serves as final arbiter in the construction of the constitutional provisions and it provides uniform interpretation of law . 
It has complete power to do so . 
However , it attempts to adhere to precedent called stare decisis . 
Appeals come to the Supreme Court from various sources , that is , from High Courts and Tribunals , Special Tribunals , etc . 
Once a decision is given , it becomes final ; but the Supreme Court does have the power to review its own decisions . 
The procedure is provided in Order XL of the Supreme Court Rules , 1966 . 
English translations of all the documents are required to be submitted . 
The Supreme Court has made rules regarding the translation of the documents to be relied upon in any proceedings before the court . 
The seat of the Supreme Court is Delhi and the proceedings are open to the public . 
Except for the Chamber Judge who sits singly , all matters are heard by benches of two or more judges . 
Enforcement of Fundamental Rights The Constitution of India , Part III , has guaranteed fundamental rights to all citizens and persons within this country . 
The guarantee of fundamental rights would have been meaningless without an accompanying guaranteed remedy for their protection . 
The scope of the jurisdiction of the court under the Article is very wide . 
Jurisdiction conferred upon the Supreme Court by Article 32 is an important and integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution . 
It is found to be . 
There are many important matters such as disputes between employers and employees , lockouts , strikes , etc . 
It is not compulsary for such tribunals to be bound by strict rules of evidence and procedure . 
They can take a practical view of the matter to decide even specialised and complex problems with expert knowledge . 
iii Many of the disputed questions are technical in nature . 
iv Such tribunals do their work more expeditiously , inexpensively and efficiently than ordinary courts , as they possess greater technical knowledge . 
The introduction of the 42hd Constitution Amendment Act 1976 has added Article 323A to the Constitution of India . 
It can punish for contempt under the Contempt of Court Act 1971 . 
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Articles 32 is not affected . 
The Commission consists of a chairman and other members appointed by the central government . 
Apart from the chairman the Commission should have at least five members . 
The Commission 's primary image is as a consumer protection body . 
those regarding unfair trade practices . 
Restrictive and unfair trade practices , it is felt , distort competition in the trade and industry and adversely affect consumer interest . 
This does not , however , affect the scope and jurisdiction of the MRTP Commission . 
A The Commission has been granted powers to issue temporary injunctions against companies indulging in restrictive trade practices . 
Under the Amendment , an explanation has been added which allows the MRTP to grant temporary injunctions , without prior notice to the offender . 
It is , however , the only court where a case of a military offence can be tried , determined and punished . 
Among the political parties , only the Labourites expressed sympathy for Indian aspirations . 
But , regardless of the lack of political rapport , even Subhas could count among his friends Britishers holding conservative views . 
The life that Subhas led in England appeared to his peers to be puritanic . 
Under various Cooperative Societies Acts States Cooperative Appellate Courts and Tribunals have been constituted in almost all states . 
These generally consist of the President and such other members as the state governments may , from time to time , consider necessary . 
The Cooperative Courts have jurisdiction over the respective state or any part thereof . 
Nor can the conditions of service of the Election Commissioner be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment . 
The Act confers powers upon the court to use its discretion and bring about and effect amicable settlement between the parties . 
Generally , in most cases , Family Courts dispense with representation by lawyers . 
The judge can , in due course , bring about speedy justice and conciliation . 
The Foreign Exchange Appellate Board has been established as provided in section 52 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act 1973 . 
The Board also has powers for revision . 
The order of the Foreign Exchange Appellate Board is final . 
Such a forfeiture is to be ordered by the competent authority appointed by the central government under the Act . 
The said Tribunal comprises a chairman and such number of other members as the central government thinks fit . 
Currently , the Tribunal consists of the chairman and two other members . 
No fees is to be paid for filing the appeal to this Tribunal . 
The hearings before the TribuAal are not open to the public . 
The Tribunal has the powers of a Civil Court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 . 
The Chairman of the Tribunal is ordinarily appointed from among the judicial members . 
The Tribunal sits in Benches in various cities , such as Ahmedabad , Allahabad Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi , Madras , etc . 
The Tribunal decides the matter only after giving both parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard . 
If the parties do not appear at the time of the hearing , the appeal may be adjourned or heard ex parte . 
The assessee is entitled to appear before the tribunal personally or through an authorised agent including a lawyer . 
The Tribunal may also take appropriate actions for its contempt . 
The decisions of the Tribunal on questions of fact are final . 
An aggrieved party can also invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution against any order . 
Where such a Tribunal consists of two or more members , one of them will be appointed as the Chairman of the Tribunal . 
The procedure to be followed by the Industrial Tribunal is prescribed by the Act and the rules made thereunder . 
Every member of the Tribunal is deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of Section 21 of the Penal Code . 
The Tribunal 's awards are published in the Government Gazette . 
On due publication , the award becomes final . 
If it is not signed by all members , it becomes illegal and inoperative . 
The Tribunal is also subject to the supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution . 
The Indian Railway Rates Tribunal was established under the Indian Railways Act 1989 . 
The application for claim before the Motor Claims Tribunal should be made within six months from the date of the occurrence of accident . 
The claim should be filed in the application form as provided in the rules framed under the Act . 
It can direct the deposit of the amount awarded to such persons in the court within 30 days of the date of award . 
Appeals Appeals from the Award of the Tribunal can be made to the High Court within 90 days from the date of the award . 
There can be no appeal if the compensation amount awarded is less than Rs 10COMMA000 . 
Having studied the original sources of continental history , Subhas Chandra acquired a proper and new appreciation of the inner currents of international politics . 
This stood him in good stead in later life . 
The Indian Civil Service open competitive examination started early in July 1920 and dragged on for a month . 
Next morning , he found his name in the newspapers in the list of successful candidates for the Indian Civil Service . 
He had come fourth in order of merit . 
Ironically , Subhas 's success at the Civil Service Examination brought him face to face with the greatest crisis of his life . 
At other times honest people fear arbitration more than they do law suits . 
The scheme of the Act is to provide a domestic forum for speedy and substantial justice unhampered by legal technicalities . 
Almost all matters in dispute that are not of a criminal nature can be referred to arbitration . 
There can not be an oral agreement or reference to arbitration . 
The parties can go in for sole arbitration or each party appointing an arbitrator . 
If the parties accept the award it becomes the rule of the court and that is the end of the dispute . 
However , there are limited grounds on which the award can be challenged . 
The arbitrators ' fees and other expenses are paid by the parties . 
The Lok Adalats have since received statutory status under an enactment of the Parliament called the Legal Services Authorities Act 1987 . 
This composite Act covers legal aid , Lok Adalats and legal assistance services . 
Sometimes other court expenses are so heavy that they constrain an individual litigant . 
Moreover , technical procedures become more complex , adjournments increase and costs continue to rise . 
It was against this backdrop that the Act providing for the formation of Lok Adalats was passed . 
In Vedic India , an autonomous village community was a special feature of the social fabric of society . 
A Panchayat was constituted of elected members and its head was appointed by election from among them . 
The institution of the Panchayat continued to enjoy autonomy until it was destroyed during the time of the Turkish and Afghan invasions . 
By the time British rule came to be established in India , Panchayats had more or less lost their importance and identity . 
The district boards and district councils were established in Marathwada and Vidarbha . 
Under this Act , the Panchayat was constituted into an elected body . 
Members were elected by adult male villagers and the Panchayat was entrusted with local functions , mainly of a civil nature . 
Panchayats were empowered to collect compulsory house taxes . 
After independence , the process of decentralisation continued to be in operation . 
In Bihar , the Panchayat Raj Act was enacted in 1948 and in Rajasthan , the Panchayat Act was introduced in the year 1953 . 
The Bombay Village Panchayats Act was enacted in 1958 . 
Finally , he wrote to Deshbandhu that the Congress must have a determined policy as to the future Constitution of India . 
He , therefore , emphasized that they must proceed to frame the new Constitution of India on the basis of Swaraj . 
The news also traveled fast to India and the subject became one of the excited discussions throughout the country . 
The die was cast . 
Subhas Chandra Bose set his face irrevocably against any compromise with expediency and opted for the path of idealism and moral action . 
In September 1921 , the Congress Working Committee met in Calcutta at Deshbandhu 's residence . 
In the middle of 1924 , the influence and prestige of the Swaraj Party and its leader Deshbandhu reached new heights . 
When the annual conference of the party was held in Calcutta in August , there was a large attendance and great enthusiasm . 
The British Government could no longer wait and watch as the Swaraj Party went on scoring success after success . 
In sheer desperation , they decided to strike at the root of the organization . 
On meeting Subhas , he said , '' Mr . 
Among those arrested with Subhas Chandra were two prominent Swarajist members of the Bengal Council . 
After a voyage of four days , the state prisoners were landed in Rangoon . 
A full day 's journey by train under strong armed police guard brought them to Mandalay . 
The second phase of this preparation for his future role in India took place inside the prison walls of Burma . 
What is more , he made a deep study of Burmese history , politics and people . 
In his letters to colleagues in social organizations , he gave detailed instructions and advice as to how they should be run and developed . 
In October 1925 , Subhas Chandra and his fellow prisoners demanded facilities and funds to perform Durga Puja in jail . 
Although the Superintendent of the jail accorded permission in anticipation of government sanction , the latter refused . 
It was at this point towards the end of 1927 that Subhas was elected President of the Bengal Provincial Congress Committee . 
They wanted to dispose of the Indian question before a Labour Government came into power . 
The Indian National Congress reacted sharply to the appointment of the Simon Commission . 
The trend , however , changed for the better . 
The annual session of the Indian National Congress of 1928 was held in Calcutta under the presidentship of Pandit Motilal Nehru . 
The attendance at this session was the largest since the inception of the Congress and all arrangements were made on a colossal scale . 
Subhas Chandra Bose emerged at this session as the principal spokesman of the younger and leftist forces in the national movement . 
When the General Officer Commanding in full military uniform inspected the parade of the volunteers , it was a magnificent spectacle . 
At the Congress session , a cleavage appeared between the elders and the young leaders of the party over the main political resolution . 
Early in January 1930 , the Congress Working Committee announced that 26th January was to be observed as Independence Day throughout the country . 
The Committee also issued a manifesto in the form of a declaration and a pledge on Indian independence . 
The first Independence Day was observed by the entire nation with unprecedented enthusiasm . 
The Independence Day was observed in January in many places with great enthusiasm . 
The British Government published a White Paper in the middle of March embodying its proposals for constitutional reforms . 
Soon thereafter , the annual session of the Congress was called in Calcutta for April . 
The most important resolution of the Congress was the one condemning and rejecting the White Paper . 
Nevertheless , the country was startled one morning in May to hear that the Mahatma had suspended the civil disobedience movement . 
They called for a more radical policy and leadership . 
The book was published in London in January 1935 . 
In Rome , Subhas personally presented a copy to Mussolini who , in turn , expressed his sympathy for the Indian freedom movement . 
Of all the European countries , Ireland was the one most interested in Indian independence . 
Conversely Indian nationalists , particularly Bengal revolutionaries had been greatly ' inspired by the Irish struggle against the common enemy . 
It was here that in about ten days , he wrote his unfinished autobiography An Indian Pilgrim . 
He wrote ten chapters bringing the narrative of his life upto his resignation from the Indian Civil Service in England in 1921 . 
Unfortunately owing to the stress and strain of his hectic public life that followed soon thereafter , he never finished his autobiography . 
Before returning home , Subhas Chandra visited London in January 1938 . 
While he was there , came his formal elections as Congress President . 
The emergence of Air Force as a new factor in world history also posed a new challenge to the empire . 
The Rashtrapati declared with confidence that amid this interplay of world forces , India emerged much stronger than she had been ever before . 
He said that only by emphasising our common interests , economic and political , could ' we ' cut across communal dissensions . 
He categorically denied that Congress 's method was one of passive resistance . 
This idea is based on the similarity of names . 
It has a wide or narrow bridge and seven strings . 
In conclusion , he referred to the necessity of adequate preparations for making contry 's final advance in the direction of Swaraj . 
The mental agony that Subhas Chandra experienced at Tripuri made his recovery all the more difficult . 
Our main task in this age is to end imperialism and win national independence for the Indian people . 
When freedom comes the age of national reconstruction will commence and that will be the socialist phase of our movement . '' 
Subhas Chandra started a weekly journal , Forward Bloc in August 1939 of which he was the Editor . 
He wrote a series of signed editorials in the journal week after week . 
His deputy was Alexander Werth who had qualified as a barrister in England and had deep and sympathetic interest in Indian affairs . 
They realised that he possessed an extraordinarily strong will and that his sincerity and integrity were beyond question . 
When Germany attacked Soviet Russia at the end of June 1941 , Subhas Chandra was in Rome . 
Netaji immediately started thinking in terms of coming over to the East and organising an armed thrust into India from the East . 
What is more , to Subhas Chandra 's satisfaction , gandhi was moving in the direction of a final struggle with the British . 
If India were free the first step would probably be to negotiate with Japan '' . 
Netaji met Adolf Hitler for the first and the last time at the end of May 1942 . 
This was the first and only declaration of its kind by the Plead of State of a foreign power during World War II . 
Having won the first round , Netaji disclosed his presence in Japan to the world . 
The news created a wave of sensation among Indians throughout Asia and consternation in the enemy camp . 
He broadcast a stirring appeal to his countrymen in East Asia for active and total support in the coming campaign for India 's freedom . 
This is a task which must therefore devolve on Indians living abroad and particularly on Indians living in East Asia , ... 
Thus , for the first time in two hundred years , India 's freedom fighters tasted independent statehood . 
The proclamation of the Azad Hind Government is a memorable document in the history of India 's freedom struggle . 
Netaji wrote it sitting through one whole night sipping cups of coffee . 
After proclaiming the Government , Netaji took the oath as the Head of State and Prime Minister . 
The moment was so emotionally charged that he broke down and tears rolled down his cheeks . 
There were occasions when he himself ran the risk of being encircled or of being killed in action . 
In the broadcast , he traced the contemporary history of India 's struggle underlining the great role played by Gandhiji in that history . 
On the other hand , Netaji said , the war aims of America were to dominate the world and create the American century . 
Therefore , he said , '' I am convinced that if we do desire freedom we must be prepared to wade through blood . '' 
The Soviet Union entered the war against Japan on the 9th August 1945 and its forces immediately invaded Manchuria and the northern Japanese islands . 
Japan 's fate was sealed and she unconditionally surrendered to the Allies on the 14th August 1945 . 
The news of Japan 's surrender was conveyed to Netaji while he was watching a cultural performance by the Rani of Jhansi Regiment . 
When he was born , the surging tide of Bengal Renaissance had reached its high water mark . 
Although , he believed that India was ripe for revolution , the rest of the national leadership thought otherwise . 
He joined Presidency College , the premier college of Calcutta University in 1913 . 
In Calcutta , he learned that social service was an integral part of Yoga and it encompassed national reconstruction on modern lines . 
The leader who captured their imagination at the time was Aurobindo Ghose . 
His close associate Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak also commanded great prestige . 
Only in exceptional cases could he depute or authorise the Chief Justice to preside over the court . 
Further , administrating justice was considered a divine duty . 
We also learn that some court fees were payable to the king by the parties in some cases . 
The above courts dealt with cases of common law and political offences . 
The classification was not very strict ; in the seventeenth century the Qazi heard all cases civil , criminal , religious and secular . 
The jurisdiction of the court was not limited . 
Cases were not classified for jurisdiction according to either the seriousness of the offence or the value of the property involved . 
No two courts could be called mutually exclusive , either on the basis of territory or the amount of the claim . 
It was however possible that a higher court could send a case to the lower court . 
Similarly , there were no graded appellate courts . 
The judges of courts were learned men and each had an individuality of his own . 
The Mughal judges had to perform the duties of policemen too . 
The Mughal court could take judicial notice of rumors and make investigations or even trick the parties into confessing the truth . 
Courts in a Capital The emperor 's court was the Supreme Court of the empire . 
No Mir Adils are traceable in Qasbas , Parganas and Sarkars , because there was not much litigation . 
The Diwan 's court was one of appeal only . 
The Panchas were supposed to possess the divine quality of rendering true justice and their authority was more moral than strictly legal or administrative . 
Public opinion was the major sanction behind their authority . 
The administration of justice by Panchayats was appreciated by early British administrators in India . 
The rule during Akbar 's regime was that the judges must try to find out the facts of a case by every possible means . 
Statements of witnesses alone were not regarded as sufficient . 
Other important state officials were the Kotwal , the Amin and the Qazi . 
The Qazi dealt with religious offences and the Kotwal mainly with secular ones . 
Apart from his police duties , the Kotwal also enjoyed some judicial powers . 
The Governor and town judges dealt with civil cases , whereas the Kotwal took cognisance of criminal cases . 
Their jurisdiction embraced the entire province . 
The provincial Diwan was an important judicial officer . 
Such an official was designated a Muhatasib in the Islamic states . 
He could decide these suits and also order their execution . 
He could not , however , hear any other cases . 
Morever , he could , decide the above suits only where the defendant owned up the charge . 
He was not entitled to entertain those cases where the claim was in dispute . 
Hastings set up Criminal Courts or Faujdari Adawluts , and transferred to these the jurisdiction formerly exercised by the zamindars . 
The jurisdiction and powers exercised by the chartered Supreme Courts and the Sudder Dewany and Nizamat Adawluts were transferred to the High Court . 
Each one of these High Courts was to consist of a Chief Justice and not more than fifteen judges . 
Power was also given to create a fourth High Court which was exercised in 1866 when High Court was established at Allahabad . 
Indian High Courts Act 1911 In 1911 only four provinces in British India were possessed of High Courts of Judicature . 
In all the remaining provinces the highest tribunal was that of the Judicial Commissioner appointed by the Government of India . 
A provision was also made for the appointment of temporary additional judges by the Governor General in Council . 
It was necessarily imperfect , and with the awakening of national consciousness there was a steady demand for removal of its more glaring defects . 
This effectively rang the death knell for the old concept of the king as final judge in all matters . 
JUDICIARY TODAY It is generally presumed that the earlier form of punishment for acts which can be called criminal was private revenge . 
He directly approached the Principal of Scottish Church College Dr . 
Professor Urquhard was favourably impressed and agreed to take him in provided a formal consent was obtained from the Principal of Presidency College . 
Subhas found in Dr . 
He was greatly excited by the tales of adventure of this officer and wanted to join the army . 
The Government of India had agreed to start a university unit of India Defence Force or Territorial Army . 
Physical tests for admission to this were not so tough as for the army and Subhas was able to get in . 
The experience that he gained added a new dimension to his life . 
Parliament has control over judges by way of impeachment only . 
The Supreme Court consists of one Chief Justice and 25 associate judges . 
The salary and perquisites of the Chief Justice of India and puisne justices of the Supreme Court are fixed by the Constitution . 
The original jurisdiction is used rarely , though there are a few cases where it has been invoked and exercised . 
Some five decades ago , when the Constitution was framed , the activities of the State were relatively few and limited . 
As a result of this , various tribunals are were established which are not strictly courts in the traditional sense . 
They have a permanent existence and are adjudicating bodies . 
Where judicial powers are derived from the state and the body deals with justice , it is called a court . 
On the other hand , a tribunal is an agency created by a statute and invested with judicial powers . 
The Tribunal is competent to declare that a Statutory Service Rule is violative of Articles 14 and 16 . 
i recruitment , and matters concerning recruitment , to any civil service of the state or to any civil post under the state ; 
Disputes should be filed before the Bench within whose jurisdiction the applicant is posted for the time being . 
Manko , the daughter of the demon , sat weeping when Toti the parrot of the house came to ask for his dues . 
Answers to these queries might give us a better insight into the history of Indian bowed instruments . 
He was never to look back again . 
He wanted to obtain from the supreme leader of the movement a clear conception of his complete program of action . 
The first thing that Subhas did on meeting Gandhiji was to apologise for his foreign costume . 
The Mahatma , however , soon put him at ease and an interesting conversation followed . 
He flooded Gandhiji with questions which the latter answered with his usual patience . 
On arrival in Calcutta , Subhas found that Deshbandhu was on tour and he had to wait for a while . 
The organization was declared illegal by the Government but that added more fuel to the fire . 
Neither the Government nor their controlled press were able to produce a shred of documentary evidence to establish their charges . 
As Mayor of Calcutta , Deshbandhu made a significant speech in the Corporation in protest against Subhas 's arrest . 
He had frequent trouble with these officers and had often to take them severely to task . 
As a punishment , he was transferred to Berhampore Jail away from Calcutta . 
Evidently it is from these that the concert instrument has evolved . 
Thereafter , the Government ordered his transfer to Almora jail in the United Provinces . 
He was put on a boat sailing from Rangoon and reached Diamond Harbour at the mouth of the river Hooghly on the fourth day . 
That was in May 1927 . 
One of the principal causes of this situation was the premature death of Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das in June 1925 . 
To Subhas Chandra , his closest disciple , his passing was more than a national calamityit was indeed a deep personal tragedy . 
There can be no doubt that this personal bereavement also contributed to a rapid deterioration in Subhas 's health . 
It remains in the history of our struggle as an immortal saga of patriotism , heroism and sacrifice . 
The report of the Simon Commission was published in June 1930 . 
While in prison , Subhas was elected Mayor of Calcutta , but he could assume office only after his release later in the year . 
In his Mayoral address , Subhas Chandra movingly recalled Deshbandhu 's leadership in the field of civic progress . 
The First Round Table Conference was held in London towards the end of 1930 without the participation of the Congress . 
But it was not clear whether , given all the safeguards , a truly responsible government would come into existence . 
The fact was that in the absence of the Indian National Congress , no progress towards a settlement between India and Britain was possible . 
Intense grief and anguish gripped the entire nation . 
The Karachi Congress met under the presidentship of Vallabhbhai Patel . 
Eventually , they declared that although they did not approve of the Pact , they would not divide the party at that critical hour . 
Subhas made a statement to this effect before the Subjects Committee . 
As at Lahore so at Karachi , Subhas Chandra and others having leftist leanings were excluded from the Congress Working Committee . 
Subhas Chandra traveled with Gandhiji again after the Karachi Congress and observed that the Mahatma was then at the pinnacle of popularity and prestige . 
In April , the Congress Working Committee selected gandhi as the sole representative of the Congress to the Round Table Conference . 
The communal elements took advantage of the announcement and M . 
She found the attitude of the powers that be extremely unfriendly . 
Eventually , it was decided to send Subhas to Europe for treatment and cure . 
They would also not be responsible for expenses on account of his travel and treatment abroad . 
Before his departure for Europe , Subhas Chandra was brought back for a while to Jabalpur jail where his brother was held . 
Some members of the family and Deshbandhu 's widow Basanti Devi came to Jabalpur to bid him farewell . 
In March 1933 , Subhas reached Vienna . 
There , he found very good physicians and received satisfactory medical treatment . 
He found a kindred spirit in Vithalbhai Patel who shared his interest in securing international support for Indian nationalist aspirations . 
Soon after the suspension of the civil disobedience movement , Subhas Chandra was invited to preside over an Indian Political Conference in London . 
The British Government by a clever design had endorsed his passport only for two European countries Italy and Austria . 
This was to create the impression that he could not travel to other countries including Britain . 
In the seventeenth century England made a remarkable contribution to world civilisation through her ideas of constitutional and democratic government . 
During his sojourn in Europe , Subhas Chandra took upon himself the role of the unofficial Ambassador of Indian Nationalism . 
In the south , Italy under Mussolini 's leadership was getting stronger and threatening British hegemony in the Mediterranean region . 
There were , however , some dissident groups in the party who wanted to make common cause with colonial and subject peoples against Britain . 
Subhas Chandra was assured by such dissident groups that they would be prepared to secretly assist revolutionary organizations in Bengal . 
Others were working with German socialists , and finally there were young students who had recently arrived from India . 
The last group was being guided by A . 
But , Subhas Chandra emphasised that agricultural improvement would not be enough . 
Industrial development under state ownership and state control would be indispensable and a new industrial system would have to be built . 
By the time Subhas Chandra became President , the Congress Party had accepted office in seven out of eleven provinces of British India . 
Thus , to him , the problem of unity was largely a mass psychological problem . 
The people must be educated and drilled to feel they are one nation . 
That party was the Congress . 
It was for the Congressmen to determine whether industrialisation would be comparatively gradual one as in Britain or a forced march in India . 
In fact , he stood for their revival and strengthening with the aid of science as in Germany , Japan and other advanced countries . 
His election showed the vast and influential following that he had throughout the country . 
During the contest , Gandhiji remained silent . 
Upon his return to Calcutta , Subhas was taken seriously ill . 
He asked for a postponment of the next meeting of the Working Committee later that month . 
Most of the members responded to his request by resigning enbloc from the Working Committee . 
Jawaharlal Nehru issued a statement separately which amounted to resignation . 
The Congress session was scheduled to be held at Tripuri near Jubbulpore in Madhya Pradesh early in March . 
He had developed pneumonia in both his lungs and no quick recovery was possible . 
Members of his family and a team of doctors accompanied him . 
At Tripuri , his fever did not show any signs of abating . 
There was hectic political activity and continuous and labored negotiations among different groups with a view to resolving the impasse . 
But the majority of the old Working Committee was dead against any compromise or settlement with the President . 
As the President was too ill , his address was read at the open session by his brother Sarat Chandra . 
In his address , the President first referred to the very unusual and extraordinary circumstances under which the Congress was being held . 
He welcomed the fraternal delegation of the Wafd Party of Egypt who were attending the session as guests of the Indian National Congress . 
Second , even if his first expectation was not fulfilled he could act on his own in any major crisis . 
And the result would be that India would repeat her mistake of 1914 when the first world war broke out . 
The propaganda offensive of the Forward Bloc , under Subhas Chandra 's leadership was in full swing from May 1939 onwards . 
The Congress Working Committee met on the 8th September 1939 to decide upon its attitude towards the war . 
The Congress Working Committee ultimately adopted a resolution which was in substance an offer of cooperation in Britain 's war effort under certain conditions . 
Meanwhile , the enemy freighter roared past over the submarine which had just dived giving it a big jerk . 
Both the sides had to wait till sunrise . 
But then , when dawn broke the sea was too rough and it was impossible to get the two boats near to each other . 
And every patriotic Indian must advance towards the field of battle . 
Unfortunately , however , owing to inadequacy of leadership and inexperience in international affairs , the movement broke down . 
When Netaji arrived , it was in utter disarray and the INA was in a state of suspended animation . 
In a magnificent and statesmanlike gesture , Rash Behari Bose handed over the leadership of the entire movement to Netaji . 
The aim and purpose of this organization would be to take up arms against British Imperialism . '' 
He expressed in simple terms the sumtotal of his revolutionary experience . 
Indians in East Asia responded to their chosen leader in full measure . 
With the force of arms and at the cost of your blood you will have to win liberty . 
We must build up our national defense on such unshakable foundations that never again in our history shall we lose our freedom ... '' . 
'' My soldiers ! 
TO DELHI ! '' 
The old texts also specify that members of a court should not connive with the king if he acts unjustly . 
The Evidence Act makes the evidence of experts relevant for arriving at a decision . 
While arriving at a conclusion on a question of fact , he could also take the help of merchants appointed to assist the court . 
The growth of justice was connected with the social and political conditions of the time . 
The moral and political theories determined the origin and development of law . 
The judicial system in the early world was dominated by royal legislation . 
According to him , law was the eternal order , it was justice and duty . 
Danda or punishment was the basis of the state . 
Laws were made to synchronise with people 's needs and economic conditions . 
Kautilya said , '' law is a royal command enforced by sanction and the regulating factor of all types of human activities '' . 
There is little doubt that the Kantakasodhana was a very important court . 
It was in this court that disputes arising out of the violation of State laws and regulations were tried . 
i protection of the interests of artisans ; 
ii protection of the interests of merchants ; 
iii ways and means of dealing with national calamities ; 
preventing people from maintaining themselves by sordid means ; 
Appeal from the judgements of this court lay to the Privy Council , subject to certain restrictions . 
The Mayor 's court at Calcutta was abolished , but the Court of Request continued to exist . 
The Supreme Court began to apply English rules of law and procedure , regardless of Indian conditions . 
It refused to recognise the government of the Nawab or the authority of his agents and of the provincial courts . 
To avoid vagueness an amending Act was passed in 1781 which clearly defined the powers and extent of jurisdiction of the Supreme Court . 
Courts of request were established by a Charter of 1753 . 
Their decrees were not valid until revised and countersigned by the judge . 
iii Dewany Adawluts or City and Zillah Courts . 
Register courts and the Provincial Courts of Appeal were abolished . 
The system of Civil Courts established by Lord Cornwallis in Bengal was adopted in Madras presidency in 1802 . 
Revenue and Civil Courts were kept distinct . 
Village Panchayats could also determine suits of any amount within the jurisdiction of their villages . 
In Bombay also Civil Courts were established after the Bengal Regulation of 1793 . 
The delay in bringing the offenders to justice resulted in increased crime . 
The former were abolished in 1845 and their jurisdiction was transferred to the judges of Zillah Courts . 
In Bombay it was the magistrates , Zillah judges , and the Court of Circuit who exercised criminal jurisdiction . 
A special court also existed for the trial of political offences . 
The codification and simplification of law was one of the greatest reforms effected during this period . 
In the first place there was the difficulty of ascertaining the exact nature of Indian law . 
For this purpose , the 1935 Act provided for the establishment of the Federal Court , the forerunner of the Supreme Court of India . 
However , feuds particularly between powerful families of different communities continued to be one of the causes of war . 
Religious leaders often played the role of moderators of conflicts and punishers of offences . 
In addition to this , there was also something called state revenge . 
i criminal conspiracy ; 
ii offences against the state ; 
iii forfeiture of property ; 
The courts can award any or a combination of any of the above punishments depending upon the offence committed . 
This was later supplemented by the 1898 Act . 
The expression ' civil proceedings ' covers all proceedings in which a party asserts the existence of a . 
It is here that more serious offences such as dacoities , all types of homicide , thefts by habitual offenders , etc . 
Under the Criminal Procedure Code , the state government is required to appoint a Court of Sessions for every session division . 
Generally , there is one Court of Sessions in every session division though there may be more such judges in the Court . 
These may be designated as Additional Sessions Judges or Assistant Sessions Judges , and they are Judges of the same court . 
The Additional Sessions Judge tries all those cases which are assigned by the Sessions Judge . 
However , an appeal from the court of the Magistrate can be entertained and heard only by the Sessions Judge . 
The place where he is to hold his court is appointed by the High Court . 
A Sessions Court has both appellate and revisional jurisdiction over the inferior courts . 
iii framing of the points of controversy called ' issues ' between the parties ; 
iv recording of evidence of the plaintiff petitioner , defendant respondent ; and finally v delivery of judgement by the court . 
In these broad stages the trial really begins after the issues have been framed . 
That is why the Arbitration Act specifically provides for approaching an appropriate court for obtaining such interlocutory orders from a civil court . 
Materials are submitted by way of pleadings and evidence . 
The aforesaid procedure is common to all civil courts throughout the country . 
However , there is a serious controversy in this sphere . 
Sometimes in appropriate cases proceedings may be held in camera , for example in matrimonial or espionage cases , etc . 
Costs In civil cases , while passing any order and decree , the court has the discretion to grant costs . 
Thus the word ' costs ' included costs incidental to the suit . 
The principle is that costs follow the event , that is , the successful party is entitled to have the costs of the litigation . 
However , it is subject to various limitations and restraints which the court itself imposes upon itself while granting costs to the winning party . 
Costs are taxed according to the rules framed by the High Court . 
All the High Courts organically form integral parts of a single system although their territorial jurisdictions are defined . 
No High Court can claim superiority over the other . 
All the High Courts have the same status under the Constitution . 
Judges of the different High Courts also belong to the same family even though there may be . 
High Courts have original as well as appellate jurisdiction , as provided in Civil Procedure Code . 
The power to issue the writs and orders under Article 226 belongs to all the High Courts in India . 
This being a constitutional power , the power under Article 226 is not fettered by anything contained in any statutory provision . 
The jurisdiction under Article 226 extends to revenue matters unlike under the Government of India Act . 
Although introduced with the best of intentions , this remedy of enforcement of fundamental and other rights has become a much misused one . 
Oral arguments are heard at length apart from written briefs . 
The Commission has specifically been granted powers of contempt of court if its orders are violated . 
It received the assent of the President on 24th of December 1986 . 
It also has the power of revision . 
It has the power to hear appeals by any person aggrieved by the order of the State Commission and it also has revisional powers . 
Appeal from the National Commission is provided direct to the Supreme Court under Section 23 of the Act . 
This should be filed within 30 days of the date of the order . 
The consumer fora give valuable service to consumers . 
It is not bound by cumbersome rules of evidence and civil procedure . 
It is a speedy and inexpensive remedy as no court fee is required to be paid . 
Any individual or any ' recognised consumer association can also approach the forum on behalf of the consumer in general . ' 
The Court Martial , though a legal tribunal , is not part of the judiciary of the country . 
The Summary General Court Martial consists of not less than three officers . 
He carried on a long correspondence with his second elder brother Sarat Chandra , poured out his heart to him and sought his counsel . 
During these seven long months , he considered and weighed every possible aspect of the matter including family responsibilities and monetary considerations . 
The price , according to him , was service , sacrifice and suffering . 
But , he was not particularly concerned about such family or social opposition . 
He felt sorry that he had been instrumental in introducing discord into an otherwise harmonious family . 
The reason was that certain ideas had taken possession of him which were unfortunately unacceptable to others . 
The first meeting between these two men was decisive . 
Deshbahdhu welcomed his new youthful lieutenant with open arms and entrusted him with a number of responsibilities . 
The country was then convulsing with patriotic fervor and there was unparalled popular enthusiasm . 
A visit to India of the Prince of Wales was announced for November 1921 . 
The Congress called upon the people to observe a total '' hartal '' on the day scheduled for the Prince 's landing in Bombay . 
He would not only look after his creature comforts to the minutest detailhe would even cook for him . 
It , therefore , became a joke how lucky Deshbandhu was to have an '' I . 
Gandhiji was shocked at this turn of events and at his instance the Congress Working Committee suspended the civil disobedience movement . 
On receipt of the news of termination of the campaign , they were overwhelmed with sorrow and resentment . 
Congressmen were bewildered at the sudden retreat and the general mood changed from one of bouyant optimism to depression . 
Subhas stood loyally by his leader . 
In September 1922 , there were devastating floods in the northern districts of Bengal . 
Deshbandhu , thereupon , resigned as the President since he wanted to work in opposition to the official resolutions of the party . 
Subhas and other adherents of Deshbandhu returned to Bengal from the Gaya Congress in a rather depressed mood . 
But , the Swarajists made steady headway by sheer determination , hard work and campaigning among Congressmen . 
While Subhas and other lieutenants functioned at the grassroots , the leaders Deshbandhu and Pandit Motilal toured the country . 
In the elections , the Swarajists achieved remarkable success . 
Das undertook a fast unto death demanding ! 
Others who took a leading part in such conferences were Jawaharlal Nehru , Karnala Devi Chattopadhyay , Sarojini Naidu and Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya . 
The historic Lahore Congress met under the presidentship of Jawaharlal Nehru at the end of December 1929 . 
To the masses of India , the event was one of the great inspiration and brought forth a new message . 
Subhas Chandra Bose went a step further from the position he had taken at the Calcutta Congress . 
He urged that a positive program of action be adopted to enforce the national demand . 
In his opinion , merely taking a negative stand by asking Congressmen to resign from the legislatures was not enough . 
On the 6th April Gandhiji launched the campaign by picking up pieces of salt lying on the beach . 
With civil disobedience came boycott of British goods , disobedience of the law of sedition , picketing of liquor shops , etc . 
Hundreds of people were shot and killed . 
They continued guerilla warfare for days together and British rule ceased to exist in the area . 
The majority of them were called in action and the rest went underground . 
The British military carried on an orgy of repression throughout Bengal . 
But , there was no appreciable improvement in the general situation . 
The Mahatma emphatically challenged such assertions claiming that Congress represented 85 per cent of India 's population . 
He made a great speech at the plenary session of the conference in November which , however , showed that his disillusionment was complete . 
He was also of the view that he should have gone there in 1930 when he could have secured better terms from the British . 
Subhas Chandra regretted that Gandhiji 's trip ' abroad was not utilised to raise the issue of Indian independence as an international political question . 
Gandhiji returned to India on the last day of 1931 and was given a warm and cordial welcome home . 
While he was away , the Government had perfected its plans to start a policy of ruthless repression . 
In July , he presided over the Galcdjta session of . 
The people of India fought back heroically . 
After his arrest in January 1932 , Subhas Chandra was lodged in a small jail in Seoni , an obscure place in Central Provinces . 
Ever since his childhood , Subhas held a special position in the affections of this brother and his wife Bivabati . 
Such comradeship of brothers , in ideology , service and suffering is a unique phenomenon in the history of nations . 
'' The recent speech of Herr Hitler in Munich gives the essence of Nazi philosophy ... which had a very weak scientific foundation ... 
I want to point out that it is historically false to say that Europe and Asia should not be at peace with one another . 
Italy was a country of great interest to Subhas Chandra for valid historical reasons . 
Almost a year later , in March 1937 , Subhas was released unconditionally for reasons of health . 
His eyes irradiated with a lustre that had not been there eight years ago . '' 
Therefore , under medical advice he spent a few months in Dalhousie , a health resort in north India as a guest of Dr . 
The big task before Subhas Chandra was to write out his presidential address for the Congress . 
This , he did at the very last moment , but with remarkable facility and in a single draft . 
He wrote page after page of the address sitting in his bedroom in his ancestral house on Elgin Road . 
A courier rushed the completed pages to his brother 's house round the corner at Woodburn Park . 
There his brother Sarat 's secretariat prepared the typescript which was , in turn , rushed to the press . 
It was sent the next day to be in . 
On his arrival at the Congress village of Haripura in February 1938 , Subhas Chandra was given a classic reception . 
He emphasised that the very first thing that our national government would have to do is to set up a planning commission . 
The plan would have an immediate component and a long period program . 
Unification on the above basis under a strong central government was necessary to withstand any possible foreign invasion . 
Regarding reconstruction , the principal problem would be to eradicate poverty . 
This process continues to repeat itself . 
The greatest heritage of the Vedic Hindu age is the idea of unitism in the Upanishads generally called the philosophy of the Vedanta . 
This disturbed for some time the cultural unity of the country but enriched the Indian mind with a profusion and variety of new ideas . 
We shall see in the next chapter how the movement caused a cultural and political split between Hindus and Muslims . 
AT the end of the First World War , new political circumstances caused something like a revolution in the attitude of the educated classes . 
This sudden change in attitude was only partly due to the disillusionment and resentment caused by the Reform Act of 1919 . 
During the War many industrial factories had sprung up , most of them with British capital . 
Similarly there was a whole army of educated unemployed . 
During his stay abroad he also visited Switzerland , Germany and England , winning many disciples in London . 
In 1897 he founded the Ramakrishna Mission to serve as a model for such organizations . 
He retired to the math at Bellur , teaching Vedanta philosophy to his disciples till his death in 1902 . 
A profound religious experience at this time changed the whole course of his life . 
In politics all conservatives agreed in opposing foreign domination and supporting Hindu nationalism . 
The struggle between the liberals and the conservatives ended in the victory of the latter . 
The poet , Tagore , made his point of view patent in Greater India . 
He emphasised that India 's history was not made by Hindus alone . 
Centuries ago Muslims arrived with their cultural heritage and became part of her history . 
New India was not the monopoly of any one creed or race . 
To avoid any misunderstanding we should make it clear what we understand by the term ' linguistic communalism ' . 
ness of a group of people speaking the same language that makes them form a distinct community is natural and legitimate . 
organised on a linguistic basis , the cultural and other rights of linguistic minorities in each state have been disregarded in many cases . 
For Iqbal as for Tagore , the essential nature of religion is the relation of man to Ultimate Reality . 
There is color , and never , never a word . '' 
And again only with this ego how can love be possible ? '' 
He should realise that his own action , like his existence as an individual , is mere appearance , a mere name . 
The Bhagwad Gita is not only a commentary on but a supplement to the Upanishads . 
Similarly , action is ranked inferior to knowledge . 
This great object can not be achieved through the senses and reason but only through the irrational faculty called intuition . 
It should never induce repose , mellowness , acquiescence but a creative restlessness , a dynamic vivacity , a prophetic zeal . 
'' What art aims at is the eternal flame of life , not these few moments of breathing like sparks ... 
Fallen nations do not rise without a miracle . 
True art strikes its way through the Nile like the miraculous wand of Moses . '' 
The adoption of a democratic constitution made a change in the official language inevitable . 
But when the ! 
Each state was given the power to adopt any language or languages for its official business . 
In view of these objections adequate safeguards were provided in the Constitution . 
Today we are faced with the same problem . 
It will only enervate our culture and cause it to suffer from pernicious anemia . 
That is why its influence over the south is very limited . 
To be truly national it has to assimilate the best elements of the various regional cultures specially those of south India . 
This requires a maximum cultural contact . 
Several important steps have already been taken in this direction . 
No nation which despises economic value as gross materialism can make the persistent effort and immense sacrifice necessary for industrial progress . 
But it is necessary to supplement this with carrying urban art to the villages . 
They generally believed that this could be done without a fundamental change in the social structure . 
Their purpose could be achieved by merely relaxing some of the restrictions imposed by these systems . 
So some daring reformers challenged the caste system and carried on a campaign to put an end to it . 
The advent of independence naturally gave an impetus to social reform and the combined efforts of the Government and private agencies accelerated its progress . 
The Government , no doubt , does all it can to enforce these laws . 
Special concessions are given to Harijans in education as well as in employment . 
Women are given office and honors according to their merit . 
The courts of law do them full justice in cases relating to marriage and inheritance . 
But in society old prejudices persist and inequality and injustice prevail as before . 
Private agencies and individuals , therefore , have to shoulder a far greater burden than the state in the work of social reform . 
As we said in the beginning , the circumstances which are leading us towards this change are the direct result of our political freedom . 
Consequently , the large joint family units are breaking up into smaller ones consisting of husband , wife and children . 
Moreover , the number of men and women who marry very late in life or do not marry at all , is increasing . 
At the same time people are migrating from the villages into towns . 
These changes give rise to fresh problems . 
But though she influenced them and was influenced by them , her cultural basis was strong enough to endure . 
What was the secret of this strength ? 
Where did it come from ? 
I thought of what India had accomplished in Eastern Asia , in Angkor , Borobudur , and many other places . 
These middle classes were too much the product of that structure to challenge it and seek to uproot it . 
Our reactions varied and depended on our previous environment and experience . 
Much had gone in the battering they had received during the past 200 years . 
Yet something remained that was worth while , and with it so much that was worthless and evil . 
That entanglement grew in later years and influenced my mental outlook greatly . 
They were led by a man named Ramachandra , who himself was not a local peasant . 
They told us of the crushing exactions of the taluqadars , of inhuman treatment , and that their condition had become wholly intolerable . 
They would accept no denial and literally clung on to us . 
At last I promised to visit them two days or so later . 
After school and college education in England , practised as a lawyer in India for six years . 
Was jailed repeatedly for political activities seven terms from 1921 to 1935 , varying from six months to two years . 
Socialistic views . 
Most of us accept also certain metaphysical conceptions as part of the faith in which we have grown up . 
I have been affected by this and so , in a sense , I am favourably disposed towards these assumptions ... 
But I do not believe in any of these or other theories and assumptions as a matter of religious faith . 
They are just intellectual speculations in an unknown region about which we know next to nothing . 
The practical achievements of the Soviet Union were also tremendously impressive . 
It was not a difference between mind and matter , but rather of something that lay beyond the mind . 
Usually , however , I have refrained latterly from expressing this opinion because of the orders of my chief . 
Such imitation can only be confined to a small number which cuts itself off from the masses and , the springs of national life . 
Art and literature remain lifeless if they are continually thinking of foreign models . 
It must never allow us to forget our many weaknesses and failings or blunt our longing to be rid of them . 
It was India 's way in the past to welcome and absorb other cultures . 
Thus we shall remain true Indians and Asiatics , and become at the same time good internationalists and world citizens . 
My generation has been a troubled one in India and the world . 
Of course , I had relief in the past by spinning and weaving etc . 
I have read relatively little and at the slightest pretext I put aside my book . 
Living in the tent has helped in the process and the cloudy weather has also lured me out . 
But that could only be a fleeting glimpse and sometimes an irritating one , for there was a suspicion of a veil hiding much ; 
Yet , I fear , this hardness is only at the surface and underneath lies a sea of sentiment which has often frightened me . 
Yet on occasions the shell bursts to my great discomfiture . 
To begin with , the impact swept the lower middle class outside the Congress although it was larger in number . 
The Congress became predominantly a lower middle class organization . 
We were unfortunate to lose a group of Liberals . 
In America , the state is giving bounties to the farmers to burn their crops . 
Can you imagine anything more foolish than that ? 
That is the stage of civilisation which we have reached under the sway of capitalism in the world . 
In India , we do not quite see the tremendous happenings because of the fact that ours is not a fully capitalist country . 
You should prepare yourselves for the big things that are going to happen . 
Whatever is going to happen , we are not going to have a quiet life and a static life . 
These are the problems which you , as students , should think about . 
Political freedom took new shape then and acquired a new content . 
Not many accepted his views in their entirety ; some disagreed with that fundamental outlook . 
It was basically concerned with his firm belief in the moral law , which he calls the law of truth or love . 
If that is the condition of the world at large , what of our own unhappy country ? 
Your immediate problem and mine is to gain political freedom for our country , but this is only part of the problem facing us . 
So long as imperialism is not rooted out , mankind will be exploited and oppressed by a few . 
Most of the Puranas are named after Vishnu and some after Brahma or Shiva . 
Such compilations were known to the Hindus from the earliest times . 
But those religious doctrines which were directly concerned with social and moral life , i . 
What matters it , if this results in the gravest disorder and in death and injury to the people ? 
The freedom of India is dear to all of us here . 
What is the meaning of this flag ? 
It is one of the symbols of India 's freedom . 
Today , when you have raised this flag , are you not fired by the determination that it shall not be lowered ? 
The flag under which you stand today and which you have just now saluted does not belong to any community . 
It is the flag of the country . 
If you have so far worked for any particular community to the detriment of the nation you have proved false . 
Commentaries on old works were written in large numbers in strict accordance with the elaborate rules laid down for the commentators . 
The Rajput courts became centres of art , literature , poetry and drama . 
Before him Raja Mahindiapal of Kanauj was the patron of the noted dramatist Shekhar . 
Under his patronage the new faith flourished as it had never done before . 
No lasting empire of the stature of the Maurya empire could be established during the period . 
Once during the reign of Menander the raiders reached as far as Pataliputra . 
At first they were called Yavanas and regarded as foreigners , but were finally assimilated into Hindu society as Kshatriyas . 
They were followed within a short time by the Pallavas whose name indicated their Persian origin . 
Later , in the tenth and eleventh centuries several Shaivite and Vishnavite acharyas tried to put the idea of Bhakti on a philosophical basis . 
He too believes God to be the one and only being but he invests Him with attributes . 
He is the creator , preserver , and destroyer of the world . 
Matter and spirit have both a degree of reality but their existence is not independent of God . 
They are merely accidents of His being and subservient to His will . 
This according to Professor Sachau , was the Vedanta Sutra of Badarayana Vyasa . 
As long as Sind was under the Abbasides the work of translation from Sanskrit into Arabic continued . 
But the cultural influence exercised by the Muslims over Sind and Gujarat during this period has not yet fully come to light . 
In any case , Muslim influence on Indian culture in the south and west was limited and indirect . 
This region occupied a central position in the old world and was the meeting point of three continents . 
But the life of man does not end with his departure from this world . 
There is another world where he will get the final reward or retribution for the sum total of his actions . 
Contrary to the attitude taken by many other religions , Islam does not deprecate the value of this world and this life . 
As to the degree of reality the world possesses , from the point of view of absolute existence it does not interest the Quran . 
What it emphasises is that from the relative point of view of man the world has as much reality as he himself . 
This affirmation of life and of the physical world is peculiar to Islam . 
These are the basic attributes of God from which many others are derived . 
But the Aga Khan or the British Government could not stop the inevitable drift of the Muslim bourgeoisie towards nationalism . 
The World War hastened the process , and as new leaders arose the Aga Khan seemed to retire into the background . 
Even Aligarh College changed its tone , and among the new leaders the most dynamic were the Ali Brothers , both products of Aligarh . 
It was a slow process , but it was a continuous one . 
The Muslim communal organizations were more successful in regaining some of their old prestige among the Muslim masses . 
The question of the essential nature of God and the world is the most delicate in speculative philosophy . 
Not only in theology but also in metaphysics , the concept of essence is generally more negative than positive . 
The positive aspect of His nature is not discussed at all . 
Very great stress is laid on the unity of God in the Quran . 
It forbids the sharing of any of God 's attributes , let alone His Essential Being , in thought or speech . 
But as far as freedom from conditions is concerned , the Quran follows a middle path . 
The love of and devotion to the Supreme One is the first and foremost duty of the believer . 
The two languages which have influenced Muslim thought in India are Arabic and Persian , and especially the latter . 
But the influence of Persian has no element of religion about it . 
That is a common and a precious heritage for all of us in India . 
Pride in the past achievements of Islamic races and countries is probably one of the strongest of Islamic bonds . 
Does any one grudge the Muslims this noble record of various races ? 
No one can take it away from them so long as they choose to remember it and cherish it . 
It is the fear complex that we have to deal with in these communal problems . 
Honest communalism is fear ; false communalism is political reaction . 
To some extent this fear is justified , or is at least understandable , in a minority community . 
There is no essential difference between the two . 
The Hindu Mahasabha leaders largely confined themselves to criticising the Congress . 
They have no program except a negative one , as the Mahasabha hinted at Ajmer , of not disturbing the present social order . 
This itself shows that the controlling forces of these communal organizations are the upper class , possessing social groups today . 
But that very struggle demands that we must check harmful tendencies and always keep the goal before us . 
He was caught up in the general weaknessverbosity and forgot the main point . 
Firstly , the word Swarajya is concerned with the relations of one country with another country or countries and this relationship is generally . 
If a country is not dependent upon others economically and politically , it is then called independent . 
Here also there is often a deception countries politically free are , behind the screen , economically slaves to some other country . 
Still , we can say that countries that are politically and economically free are independent . 
In such an independent country there does not arise any question of social and cultural freedom , for that is implied . 
Is the extraction of interest by the bankers also a part of our ' self which we have to protect ? 
There the Muslim penetration was less . 
The reason for it is obvious . 
In our country the Punjab and Sind had the closest relations with the Muslim kings and kingdoms . 
But today the Hindu Mahasabha has the Punjab as its stronghold and in the south it is hardly known . 
I felt confused and so I put several questions to him seeking clarification . 
He kept silent and did not reply . 
He accepted the gods and rituals of Egypt , only mixing a few of his own gods of Greek origin with them . 
Then after many years it came under the sway of the Roman Empire . 
Islam is there for the last 1300 years . 
In saying that Egypt has lost its identity , what does Bhaiji mean ? 
Of the last 7COMMA000 years of history which period does he consider as the era of the real Egyptian identity ? 
In Iran also Islam had an easy victory . 
But the civilisation of the modern world is that of mighty machinery and gigantic workshops . 
What have they to do with religions ? 
This objection and demand bear a strong family likeness to what Bhai Parmanand has often said on behalf of the Hindu communalists . 
But it knows that the masses , Hindu and Muslim , care little for communal questions . 
The procession was certainly an interesting one and it had certain unique features . 
In music , stirring and inspiring tunes were preferred to depressing and doleful ones . 
How , then , can we change it or shape it to our liking by resolutions or orders from above ? 
And yet that variation is but the mirror of the rapid changes taking place among the people who use it . 
Attempts to force the growth of a language in a particular direction are likely to end in distorting it and crushing its spirit . 
What should be the policy of the state in regard to language ? 
By this declaration the Congress is bound , and no minority or linguistic group can require a wider assurance . 
The language of the people in north and central India continued to be Hindi throughout . 
A highly Persianized form of Hindi developed round the imperial courts ' , and this was called Rekhta . 
Right up to the Revolt of 1857 , Urdu meant Hindi , except in regard to script . 
As is well known , some of the finest Hindi poets have been Muslims . 
Till this revolt , and even for some time after , the usual term applied to the language was Hindi . 
This did not refer to the script , but to the language , the language of Hind . 
Muslims who wrote in the Urdu script usually called the language Hindi . 
On what must this unity be based ? 
The masses must be the common factor between Hindi and Urdu . 
Most of our present troubles are due to highly artificial literary languages cut off from the masses . 
When writers write , whom do they write for ? 
Is it surprising that Hindi and Urdu books have restricted sales ? 
So in a way , the contact between Islamic culture and Hindu culture had already begun in the eighth century . 
The impetus which the Bhakti movement among the Hindus received from Muslim ideas has also been mentioned . 
I have said previously that we should not object to the development of Hindi or Urdu separately . 
But the formation of artificial words with no real sanction behind them has no such significance . 
This will make it easier for our people to read technical and scientific works in various languages , Indian and foreign ... 
It is desirable that linguistic and technical experts should make a list of such words for common use . 
Any attempt to influence this evolution by mixing up the consideration of other languages in India is doomed to failure . 
But one thing more . 
This talk of Muslim culture and Hindu culture in this connection astonishes me . 
India has a very powerful national culture but it has been influenced by equally powerful influences of other cultures . 
I refuse to consider these separate trends as Hindu or Muslim . 
At '' whose doors will they knock thereafter ? 
\* Where , in the context of the problems of hunger , want and ' sickness , does the communal problem fit in ? 
Today our major problems have to do with achieving independence and building the country anew . 
Can the Muslim League or the Hindu Mahasabha tackle these problems ? 
I stagger to think that these problems do not even figure in their programs ' ... 
\* For every vote cast for the Congress means voting for the independence of the country . 
I lay emphasis on discipline , unity and a spirit of cooperation among Hindus and Muslims . 
This fitted in with the demand for Indian independence . 
This was five or six years before Hitler came into power and before Japanese aggression in Manchuria had begun . 
Mussolini was consolidating himself in Italy but did not then appear as a major threat to world peace . 
Fascist Italy was on friendly terms with England and British statesmen expressed their admiration for the Duce . 
There were a number of petty dictators in Europe , also usually on good terms with the British Government ... 
In India also there were those who objected to our lining up with republican Spain and China , Abyssinia and Czechoslovakia . 
But these objectors were overwhelmed by the mass sentiment the Congress had created and hardly ever gave public expression to their views . 
The Moslem League remained throughout discreetly silent and never committed itself on any such international issue . 
In 1938 the Congress sent a medical unit consisting of a number of doctors and necessary equipment and material to China . 
For several years this unit did good work there . 
When this was organized , Subhas Bose was president of the Congress . 
In those days the new doctrine of the trusteeship of the Indian peoples was not mentioned , . 
Our oppression was perhaps not worse than it is today , but it was franker . 
This was bad enough but even worse followed . 
Having disarmed us they tell us that we are not capable of defending our country . 
Well , what is the condition of India today ? 
We talk about exploitation . 
Not merely a single exploitation , as it may be called , but sometimes double or even a triple one . 
Then again , we often have an unholy alliance of British capitalists with Indian capitalists . 
After all , we here know a great deal of the British Empire . 
The result is that India has suffered and is suffering . 
On account of India a large number of other countries have suffered and are suffering . 
They were sent in spite of the fact that the National Congress of India expressed its strongest opposition . 
It is clear that any breach in the imperialist front anywhere has its repercussions all over the world . 
A victory of fascism in Europe or elsewhere strengthens imperialism and reacts everywhere , a setback to it weakens imperialism . 
We were hardly conscious then of what was happening outside . 
And if we do so we can not fail to observe an organic connection between them which endures through changing situations . 
So far as I am concerned the racial or the religious issue does not affect my opinion . 
Inevitably , the Zionists opposed the Arabs and looked for protection and support to the British Government . 
But what of the Arabs ? 
What further infamy , what greater betrayal is afoot ? 
Incredible , unbelievable things have already happened and one 's capacity for astonishment is already past . 
A British Prime Minister functions as an emissary of Hitler and fascism and works for fascist domination over Europe . 
A French Foreign Minister , M . 
Patriotism , nationalism , peace are mouthed by all these gentlemen , but the object in view is the triumph of Hitler . 
Suddenly , as if by a flash of lightning , the true motives of the statesman are lighted up . 
The ruling classes , the top dogs have no use for freedom or democracy . 
What does it matter provided the class interests of M . 
I go to her with my homage and my greeting . 
Friends have warned me of possible danger and probable risks . 
We have forgotten ourselves . 
But we shall find ourselves again and meet the evil face to face and scotch it and end it . 
But my heart will be in India and my mind will carry her picture wherever I go . 
All discrimination based on race must go . 
We can admit no peace settlement over the bodies of colonial peoples . 
We sympathise with that difficulty , but that sympathy can not make us forget our own difficulties and disabilities . 
The war will not be won by mercenary armies with mercenary motives , how so ever efficient they might be . 
The National Planning Committee can be of great assistance in this work ... 
We do not know . 
The world is pregnant with possibilities . 
It has no pity at any time for the weak or the ineffective or the disunited . 
Of the great cities of continental Europe how many have been reduced to dust and rubble . 
It can not be the same again , but it may recover some of the old atmosphere . 
The war has not actually ended in Europe , it appears , but it must end soon . 
Peace seems far distant now , a dream that has faded , and mankind apparently marches ahead to its doom . 
Peace and cooperation and wellbeing for all the peoples of the world were well within grasp . 
But the gods perhaps envied the lot of man and drove him mad . 
It was not only a vague desire , but the compulsion of events that forced all of us to think along these lines . 
Because of this , the invitation we in India sent out brought an answering echo and magnificent response from every country of Asia . 
I do not wish to speak to you of the past , but rather of the present . 
We meet here not to discuss our past history and contacts , but to forge links for the future . 
We have no designs against anybody ; ours is the great design of promoting peace and progress all over the world . 
We piopose to stand on our own legs and to cooperate with all others who are prepared to cooperate with us . 
We do not inted to be the playthings of others . 
In this crisis in world history Asia will necessarily play a vital role . 
I hope that I may count on your cooperation in this important national work . 
Could you kindly favor me with your views on this subject ? 
Since then there have been discussions both among the political and other leaders in the country as also in the newspapers . 
There was no doubt that there was a great necessity for the . 
I consider the fight against the suppression of civil liberties as part of the fight for independence . 
The British Government cares a great deal about world opinion ... 
Be is respected very greatly all the world over and is an international personality . 
Some people do not want to join the Union for one reason or other . 
People may disagree on several matters in politics or otherwise , but they can easily agree on fighting for their civil liberties . 
Someone has said that the starting of the Civil Liberties Union is the second string to the Congress bow . 
To suspect our motives is unfair . 
Education is worth nothing without civil liberty . 
There are people who mix up the Civil Liberties Union with several things and confuse the matter . 
A big leader refused to join the Civil Liberties Union because 1 attacked him or his group in my Autobiography . 
But strong criticism of one 's views should not be taken as a personal attack . 
One can strongly criticise the views of a certain person and yet be one of his best friends . 
For a healthy and democratic growth of public life it is very essential that there should be strong and open criticism . 
I am certainly of opinion that it was unfortunate and unwise for the B . 
But it is my firm belief that public life should be built up on the foundation of a free and independent press . 
Crises arise , like wars or struggles for national freedom , or class struggles which upset the normal course of events . 
When we talk of democracy and freedom as well as of civil liberties , we must always remember that they involve responsibility and discipline . 
Without discipline and responsibility in the individual or group , there is likely to be no true freedom . 
This is regrettable but it is not difficult to understand , for it is the reaction from long continued suppression ... 
No country in the world , excepting China , has this record . 
What has been prohibited under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act , I do not know . 
That was bad enough . 
But now its scope has been widened to cover all printing , publication , reproduction and sale of any book or periodical . 
If socialism and Russia are contraband subjects then I am contraband too for I write frequently about them . 
Kitabistan have suffered a heavy loss by the seizure of many of their books by the police . 
For I propose to continue writing and speaking about socialism , and trying my utmost to have a socialist order established in India . 
I want some sanity in government and economic affairs , a little intelligence , social justice , and freedom for myself and my people . 
So ends my sixth sentence , and I shall go out again into the wide world , but to what purpose ? 
When most of my friends and comrades lie in gaol and the whole country seems a vast prison . 
Was it worth while , I wonder ? 
Will all this paper and ink convey any message to you that will interest you ? 
I do not want you to take all this for granted ; there may , indeed , be many errors in my accounts . 
Perhaps occasionally you may find my letters difficult to follow ; skip those parts , do not mind them . 
If you would know the past you must look upon it with sympathy and with understanding . 
It is easy to admire the beauties of the universe and to live in a world of thought and imagination . 
Thought , in order to justify itself , must lead to action . 
If then we are the servants of thought we must be the servants of action . '' 
People avoid action often because they are afraid of the consequences , for action means risks and danger . 
Danger seems terrible from a distance ; it is not so bad if you have a close look at it . 
And often it is a pleasant companion , adding to the zest and delight of life . 
Ramananda threw open the doors of his circle to all the four castes , men and women , and even to Muslims . 
His gifted disciple Tulsidas used the magic of his poetry to win the hearts of millions of people for Ram Bhakti . 
In fact God is to him not a concept but an experience beyond the grasp of the intellect . 
When attempts are made to interpret this experience in intellectual terms the results are conflicting , even contradictory . 
He strongly condemns the distinction of caste , color and country . 
How can you engage with it ? 
The Darwin Centre presents a different approach to how our scientists work and how we communicate with our audiences . 
What is happening now and in the future ? 
What science does The Natural History Museum do ? 
How does the Darwin Centre fit into this ? 
Charles Darwin is one of the most famous natural scientists in history . 
Why is the Darwin Centre named after him ? 
The Darwin Centre has specially designed facilities for collection storage and science . 
These have very different requirements , and so the building is in two halves . 
The collections are stored at 13C . 
This minimises the chance of a fire and slows evaporation of the alcohol . 
Though the alcohol preserves the specimens well , it is flammable and evaporates quickly . 
Our science is based on taxonomy and systematics . 
This is the bedrock of the study of nature , a key science on which many others depend . 
We will only be able to conserve our precious biological diversity if we can achieve greater understanding of it and the pressures upon it . 
The Darwin Centre aims to extend our knowledge in order to help us manage our world . 
We have completed the first phase of the Darwin Centre project . 
Phase Two will build on the achievements of Phase One and enhance the level of access available . 
There will be greater opportunities for the public to interact with our scientists . 
Phase Two is the subject of a 65 million fundraising campaign . 
There are many threats to our biodiversity and environment . 
What is the Museum doing to combat them ? 
There are not enough scientists studying biodiversity and helping to plan for its preservation . 
Ratification of the Rio agreement placed an obligation on countries to study their biodiversity . 
We are helping many governments around the world meet their obligations by participating in research projects with local scientists . 
We must pass on our knowledge and skills by educating the next generation of taxonomists . 
The Museum plays an active part in education . 
Our public galleries , and the Darwin Centre itself , are an important part of this work . 
We also participate in formal education . 
With Imperial College , we run an MSc course on taxonomy , and supervise many PhD students here and abroad . 
Over 70 of our scientists lecture on university courses . 
Without it , research in many other areas would grind to a halt . 
Part of our work is to raise awareness of the importance of taxonomy to science , both in the UK and abroad . 
We work to raise awareness with governments and funding bodies , as well as the media and general public . 
The Museum aims to encourage greater recognition of this crucial science . 
Collections use has changed over the years as techniques have advanced and collections have become larger . 
Mixtures of traditional and modern techniques are used in identifying new specimens . 
Each new technique in taxonomy simply complements existing methods . 
Collecting specimens for scientific research is often necessary , but never as important as preserving the living species or habitat . 
Carefully collecting a few specimens of an abundant species will not damage populations of that species . 
However , if that species is endangered , or rare , we will not collect any specimens , just information and images of it . 
Some areas of our collection are well developed , and simply do not need any more specimens . 
For example , we have at least one of nearly every known mammal . 
It is important to conserve what we already have in the collection , so that further collecting is minimized . 
Today the Museum only takes specimens from the wild if there is a defined research need . 
At any one time thousands of our specimens are on loan to other researchers , minimizing their need to collect fresh material . 
Nearly all of our collecting is collaborative . 
Why do we keep them ? 
We hold specimens from all over the world . 
Why is it important that we keep them here , as one set of collections ? 
Small pieces of things that were once living have no intrinsic value in themselves . 
The specimens are of greater value within an organised , curated collection than isolated or dispersed across several places . 
They are available for further research and are of greater use to researchers . 
Many science projects require researchers to compare different species from all over the world . 
Only a collection as large as the Museum 's has this kind of global reach and variety . 
The Museum aims to be a world leader in collection care . 
As such , we can maintain the collections for their continued use in the future . 
Specimens face many threats , and are hard to look after . 
Inspired by their example he set out on an adventurous career from the very beginning of his rule . 
In 1504 , after many ups and downs he conquered Kabul , made it his capital and began to dream of conquering India . 
Ibrahim Lodi , the nominal Emperor , was hated by his nobles and his kinsmen . 
There could be no better opportunity for a foreign invader . 
So Babur opened his campaigns of conquest against India and in the fifth invasion in 1526 defeated and killed Ibrahim Lodi and occupied Delhi . 
The Turks who conquered India under Qutubuddin Aibak were mere warriors with no experience of government , and no cultural background of their own . 
The various religious communities are Divine treasures entrusted to us by God . 
The Eternal King showers his favors on all men without distinction . 
Kings who are shadows of God should never give up this principle . 
Akbar acted sincerely and consistently on this principle . 
In Akbar 's time the sense of nationhood was still more limited . 
Other Sanskrit books on mathematics and the natural sciences were rendered into Persian by Hindu translators . 
It was a period of transition for Persian poetry in India . 
The verses of Hindu poets are also marked by this dawning romanticism . 
Their paintings present nature , in its myriad moods and colors simply but effectively . 
Complex and abstract motifs were avoided . 
The descendants of Timur were great lovers of painting even before they came to India . 
So he founded something like an academy of painting at his court where Indian and Persian artists worked together . 
More emphasis was laid on superficial embellishment and decoration than on deeper artistic qualities . 
No painting was regarded as complete without a broad gilt border covered with fine , elaborate decorative work . 
Aurangzeb 's religious austerity proved very discouraging to the art of painting and after him it deteriorated with the decline of the Mughal Empire . 
Music is the medium in which the deepest human feeling and experience express themselves without the help of intellectual concepts . 
Aurangzeb 's wars of conquest in the Deccan emptied the treasury . 
Their main activities were to compile dictionaries or omnibus lives and anthologies of poets . 
In the latter , Hindu writers had an equal and in the former a larger share than Muslim writers . 
The numerous collections of literary epistles in Persian written in this period are almost all by Hindu Munshis . 
Their command over a once foreign language is astonishing . 
History and biography show the same increase in quantity and deterioration in quality . 
Works on philosophy , astrology , astronomy , mathematics and the other sciences sometimes show erudition but seldom originality . 
In many fields the contribution of Hindus is as important as that of Muslims . 
The numerous translations from Sanskrit into Persian were done exclusively by Hindus . 
Accounts of Indian life written by British or other Europeans refer to a common Hindustani culture along with regional and sectional cultures . 
Its liberation requires that no more matter be allowed to contaminate the soul and that which has already entered it should be completely eliminated . 
A telegraph line began to operate between Calcutta and Bombay , Madras and Attock in 1854 . 
The people of India had no opportunity yet to look into the spirit of Western culture . 
They loved money and power but were to a large extent free from national and racial pride . 
The center of gravity of the state even during the reign of the Muslim kings was inside the country . 
But the state which the British now set up was in every way different from the traditional Indian state . 
As a matter of fact it was not a state at all but a subordinate administration without sovereign powers . 
Moreover he awakened in them the desire for political equality by conceding to them through the much disputed Ilbert Bill legal equality with Europeans . 
It was the impulse created by the violent controversy over this Bill which led to the foundation of the Indian National Congress in 1885 . 
Of Western art even Indians educated in England had very little understanding and those educated in India did not have any comprehension at all . 
Artistic taste can only be cultivated through contact with circles of artists and connoisseurs . 
In England they were beyond the reach . 
They wrote books on Indian philosophy , religion , law , history and archaeology in English as well as in their own languages . 
Under their guidance the vernacular literatures were diverted from the field of pure fantasy to the observation and interpretation of actual life . 
But it succeeded more in its unconscious than its conscious object . 
What was more deplorable , in some cases this superficial imitation of English manners spoiled their morals . 
On this educated class the British rulers had placed their hopes for spreading the new light . 
But these hopes were not fulfilled . 
They lived like strangers among their own people and were proud of it . 
In short , far from being eager to do their duty by their countrymen they were not even conscious of it . 
They devoted themselves solely to the service of the foreign rulers . 
The work of national service , education and reform they left to others . 
Its votaries were mainly those who owed their rise to the top level of society , to the patronage of the British Government . 
The latter group mainly consisted of orthodox religious leaders and their devoted followers . 
Its first phase with ups and downs lasted for seven years . 
This time the Government was even more ruthless than before . 
The latter fought the election with great success . 
In five provinces the Congress Party won an absolute majority and in the rest was either the largest or second largest single party . 
In five provinces it formed its own ministries and in two coalition ministries as the majority party . 
In the history of the National Congress taking the responsibility of government with limited powers was a fateful event which had a mixed result . 
In 1939 the Congress Party and its Provincial Governments were faced with the problem of taking an attitude to the Second World War . 
Most members oscillated between these two points of view . 
Dominion status was promised after the War . 
Even if they did invade , Indians fired with the spirit of independence , could resist by refusing to cooperate with them . 
This can be attained by means of prayer and spiritual exercise . 
But that is not what he is after . 
His object is to achieve complete detachment , perfect peace . 
But in those two systems knowledge does not mean intuitive but scientific knowledge based on observation , reasoning and experiment . 
Nyaya deals with pramana and pramayya , i . 
This brings us to the question of how Indian Muslims stand in relation to the national Indian culture . 
As with the Muslims , the reactions both positive and negative of the Hindu community to Western culture were very strong . 
Its program of social reform also was much more radical . 
Keshub Chandra Sen 's influence aroused the spirit of religious and social reform in the educated Hindus of Bombay . 
They started the Prarthana Samaj , more or less on the lines of the Brahmo Samaj . 
Mahadeo Govind Ranade was one of the greatest leaders of modern India . 
To them the nation meant the Hindu community ; they regarded Muslims as foreigners more or less like the British . 
His spiritual experience had revealed to him Absolute Reality in the form of truth . 
So the pursuit of truth was to him the ultimate moral value . 
He began by trying to create a cultural accord between the two communities as the basis of political unity . 
He knew that in the history of India cultural harmony above all meant religious harmony . 
On account of this fatal fight gandhi 's success in his great object , though phenomenal , was not complete . 
This is a poet 's task whose mind is the mirror of his age and whose voice the voice of his people . 
Fortunately we have had two such poets in our time , Tagore among the Hindus and Iqbal among the Muslims . 
According to him the physical world is a phenomenon of the Absolute and as such has merely a relative existence . 
But this is an illusion , maya . 
The physical world is the field in which the self exercises its spiritual force . 
This force expresses itself not in a struggle but in an intimate relation with the physical world . 
We shall give only two illustrations . 
Next to love and devotion to God , human affection is regarded as the highest virtue by both Hindus and Muslims . 
Altruism , service , and hospitality often expose good men to unscrupulous exploitation by wastrels or rogues . 
Even more striking is the uniformity of social , specially family life , of the Hindus and Muslims . 
The family life of both communities shows exactly the same pattern . 
There is a greater possibility of some of them becoming the tools of subversive forces inside the country . 
The question of the Official and national language , particularly , gave rise to grave differences . 
It seemed that our national unity instead of growing stronger was in danger of becoming weaker . 
The raising of the language controversy , immediately after independence , was full of peril but it could not be avoided . 
The first of these Commissions was appointed in 1954 and submitted its report in 1956 . 
Linguistic fanaticism is subsiding and the people appear inclined to solve their language problems in a spirit of understanding and compromise . 
The aristocratic view developed during the feudal age was that culture was the expression of the special values of the higher classes of society . 
It was their creation and they alone could enjoy it . 
We need not discuss these ideas in detail here . 
They constitute an indivisible whole . 
To give practical shape to his concept of education Gandhiji sought the help of educational experts . 
Let us wait and see how far they succeed with the scanty resources at their disposal . 
So they have to strike a balance between the static and the dynamic , the old and the new . 
This is the real issue which has to be faced in the ultimate analysis . 
This wider international aspect of the problem grew upon me as I realized more and more how isolation was both undesirable and impossible . 
And it has endured ; it is already specifically Indian and forms the basis of modern Indian culture . ' 
Only a small section of the population like the worshippers of Kali continued to observe it . 
The few sciences which were cultivated at this time had their roots in religion . 
One of these , current in the middle regions of north India , had developed on a logical pattern and was called Sanskrit . 
As the language of Hindu religion and philosophy it was studied by the upper classes throughout India . 
Buddhism exercised a great influence on education during this age . 
Before the Buddha the language of science and religion was Sanskrit . 
Education , therefore , was confined exclusively to these high castes . 
Thus slowly the long panorama of India 's history unfolded itself before me , with its ups and downs , its triumphs and defeats . 
Except for rural Bengal , which unhappily I have only rarely visited , I toured in every province and went deep into villages . 
I spoke of political and economic issues and judging from my speech I was full of politics and elections . 
When I read Spengler I disliked him . 
And yet I found a certain fascination in his enormous survey of human activity . 
But when it comes to real intimacy the circle narrows down tremendously . 
I am '' not a good enough economist to have a definite opinion about the fine points of communist economic doctrine . 
The Buddha adopted for the propagation of his message the language of common intercourse instead of Sanskrit . 
It was in this dialect that the Buddha preached . 
By the time of Asoka it had become the religious language of the Buddhists , and spread along with Buddhism throughout India . 
That is why Asoka used it in his edicts carved on pillars in different parts of the country . 
As far as knowledge is concerned , the Buddhists generally confined themselves to the study of religious lore . 
The field of learning continued to be under the sway of the Brahmins throughout the period . 
On the other hand , art flourished under Buddhist patronage . 
This appeared in the November number of The Modern Review of Calcutta . 
The article was called '' The Rashtrapati '' and was anonymous . 
The title is used for the President of the Congress . 
It struck me one day to play a little trick . 
In this article I considered judiciously my virtues and gave praise for them in full measure . 
But then I went on to say that these very virtues , if misdirected , might bring trouble . 
Took leading part in condemnation of Japanese , Italian and German aggressions , and fascism and Nazism generally . 
Visited Barcelona in June 1938 , saw air raids . 
Czechoslovakia during Sudeten Crisis in summer 1938 . 
Intimately connected with reform movements in Indian feudal states ; President of Indian States ' People 's Conference since 1939 . 
But the right means might well be beyond the capacity of infirm and selfish human nature . 
What then was one to do ? 
A kind of vague humanism appealed to me . 
There is an infinite number , of factors and relations all of which influence and determine events in varying degrees . 
Marx 's general analysis of social development seems to have been remarkably correct , and yet many developments took place later which . 
And so while I accepted the fundamentals of the socialist theory , I did not trouble myself about its numerous inner controversies . 
Let us , therefore , not rule out Intuition and other methods of sensing truth and reality . 
They are necessary even for the . 
A living philosophy must answer the problems of today . 
We can not escape from that prison or get rid entirely of that illusion , if illusion it is . 
Man no longer sees nature as something apart and distinct from himself . 
Human destiny appears to become a part of nature 's rhythmic energy . 
Science may be on the verge of discovering vital mysteries , which yet may elude it . 
Still it will go on along its appointed path , for there is no end to its journeying . 
' What else is wisdom ? 
I don ` t propose to defend myself or take any formal part in this trial . 
It is because ' I am not particularly interested in these legal proceedings . 
I have prepared a statement which I wish to read out to you now or at a later stage . 
After reading it out , I shall hand it over to the court and it need not be recorded by the court in writing . 
In spite of all the mistakes that we may have made , we have saved ourselves from triviality and an inner shame and cowardice . 
But by the second century BC their influence began to decline . 
This new culture which had begun to develop about 200 BC reached its highest level in the fourth century under the Gupta emperors . 
In the following pages we will try to give a brief survey of this new culture . 
There was also the emotional element in it , the learning from crowds , . 
May be it is a relief and an escape from human folly , human cowardice and human knavery ! 
I feel more in tune with nature . 
I notice the sensitive growing tip of a creeper plant , how full of life and energy it is ! 
See , it looks just like a snake , with a snake 's rounded nose and small eyes ! 
Which reminds me of a bright little poem which might interest you . 
It is a modern poem I forget the name of the author . 
This letter is not meant to be sent to you in the ordinary course and I do not know when you will see it . 
I do not know when you will come to interview me again . 
And so in sheer perversity I did not write just when Govt . 
Probably I would still have written to you but you were out of reach and expected every moment to leave England for India . 
And yet this business of censorship is no new thing , although jail and C . 
Even during the slack periods , politically speaking , some kind of censorship always continued . 
But when it came to personal mattters it was a different story . 
I could write with a certain measure of clarity and even my restraint of language gave some evidence of the mind and thought behind . 
Especially this was so in the last few chapters dealing with my personal life . 
It was impossible for me to lay bare my heart before anybody , much less before the world at large . 
But these last six years since the Autobiography was written have had a powerful effect upon me . 
I have survived all this , hardened , matured , call it what you will . 
I am not just one and fifty years old . 
But I feel as if I was hundreds of years old in mind and the weight of these centuries lies heavily upon me . 
Why this was so , I do not know ; such feelings are spontaneous and often utterly unreasonable . 
It was not just because she was my wife or because she had certain good qualities . 
Neither of these facts lead to a man 's love for a woman . 
My conception of marriage and sex may strike you as odd ; they certainly differ from yours . 
India grows upon me more and more and I am ever discovering something new in her . 
It is a voyage of discovery which has no end . 
And yet people call me , because of my ways and outlook , a European and an Englishman . 
They are right in a way and yet only superficially so . 
I do believe intensely in India , though it would be hard to define this belief . 
Their vulgarity and weaknesses and limited outlook appal me . 
It is not a matter for cheering . 
They were brave men , strong men . 
The situation had not developed sufficiently and they thought in a particular manner . 
The peasant was shaken up and he began to emerge from his quiescent shell . 
We learned our Indian economics more from these visits than from books and learned discourses . 
Gandhi held strong views on economic , social , and other matters . 
He refused to narrow his cultural inheritance . 
' Indian culture ' , he wrote , ' is neither Hindu , Islamic , nor any other , wholly . 
I refuse to live in other peoples ' houses as an interloper , a beggar , or a slave . ' 
Influenced by modern thought currents , he never let go of his roots and clung to them tenaciously . 
Even religion , as everything else , took second place to his passion to raise these submerged people ... 
At no time , even when its fortunes were low , did Congress surrender to superior might or submit to foreign authority . 
It remained the symbol of India 's passionate desire for independence and her will to resist alien domination . 
So long therefore as the world is not perfect , a healthy society must have the seeds of revolt in it . 
It must alternate between revolution and consideration . 
I shall welcome your agreement with me but that would mean little if it has not been preceded by thought and conviction . 
Reject utterly what I say to you if you think it is wrong . 
For '' religions '' as the Chinese say , '' are many , but reason is one '' . 
What do we find in this world of ours today ? 
Yet it was clear that only by collective action could the aggressor be stayed and peace maintained . 
But many of these very powers who talked of peace and democracy were imperialist and they sympathised with fascism and encouraged it . 
The British Government has a special responsibility for the growth of fascism and thus for bringing war nearer . 
This act of gross betrayal and dishonor did not even bring peace , but has brought us to the threshold of war . 
Such a relation could only be based on coercion , and coercion can not lead to a marching together hand in hand . 
In 1857 a bloody rebellion took place and it was suppressed in a ghastly manner . 
India 's freedom and independence were the prerequisites for us in order to play our part in the larger world . 
None of these was told or asked for its opinion . 
The air resounded with loud cries invoking freedom and asserting the sanctity of democracy . 
He was the predecessor of Kalidas who lived in the fourth or the fifth century BC . 
Kalidasa is unanimously acknowledged to be the king of Indian dramatists and poets . 
At the end of the seventh century appeared another great dramatist , Bhavabhuti whom literary critics place in the same class as Kalidas . 
His three plays Malatimadhava , Mahavircharita and Uttararamacharita are regarded to be memorable works of the golden age of Sanskrit literature . 
In epic poetry , as in drama , the Indian mind reached the heights of perfection during this period . 
Bharavi was almost a contemporary of Kalidasa . 
This freedom of India must be the symbol of the prelude to the freedom of all other Asiatic nations . 
That sanction was to take effect only when Gandhiji so decided . 
Finally it was stated that the Committee had ' no intention of gaining power for the Congress . 
The power , when it comes , will belong to the whole people of India ' . 
The resolution was finally passed late in the evening of August 8th 1942 . 
Many universities were closed . 
However great the numbers of the crowd , it can not prevail in a contest of force against armed-forces armed forces . 
The tragedy of the two great wars is over but the tragedy of the seeming peace pursues us and darkens the horizon . 
He was President of the All India States People 's Conference which met at Udaipur from 30 December 1945 to 4 January 1946 . 
The extracts are from his Presidential Address , 30 December 1945 , which was printed in The Hindustan Times , 31 December 1945 . 
This is the way imperialism still functions in Asia . 
It is the way of revolting cruelty and brutality and frightfulness and a complete denial of the right to freedom . 
In Siam , Britain wants to extend her imperial influence . 
In Malaya , she is consolidating her economic hold and extending it . 
In Burma and Ceylon she intends to hold on as long as she can . 
In India we know from recent experience how she is trying to delay and obstruct any real change . 
It is well known that Princes with advanced or independent views are not favored by the Political Department of the Government of India . 
Many of them are saddled with ministers imposed by this Political Department . 
In dealing with the States , therefore , we deal with the British Government in another guise . 
As soon as that Government goes from India , the problem changes completely . 
Their disappearance and absorption would , of course , be inevitable if Britain ever ceased to be the supreme power as regards India . '' 
The direction is towards the people . 
And so no man can say what the future of the Princes will be . 
Only those of us who fit in with changing conditions can find a suitable place in that future . 
Ultimately it will be for the people of India to decide this as other problems . 
Our future ultimately depends on the strength , cohesion and unity of our people . 
We have had to face formidable obstacles which have often prevented us from reaching our people . 
But those obstacles gradually fade away and our united strength grows . 
Among those is Hyderabad where for many years past the State Congress has been under a ban . 
It is a little absurd to think of major changes when these primary rights are denied to our people . 
Also reports reach us continually of oppression and suppression in many States . 
Conditions in State prisons are particularly bad and the lot of political prisoners deplorable . 
Of the many martyrs to our cause I should like to mention especially the name of Shri Deva Suman of Tehri State . 
Many of us will remember this brave and earnest youth who worked for the freedom of the people of the States . 
He was practically done to death by the treatment given to him in prison by the State authorities . 
We have big work ahead . 
Let us set about it with all the strength and earnestness we possess . 
My heart bled when I read reports of the mounting death toll . 
The R . 
Of these , many were politically conscious and some of them had actually been active political workers . 
During the war they submitted to . 
When the war was over , the spirit of some of these boys revolted against such treatment and resulted in protests and demonstrations . 
He has seen many changes in foreign countries and these changes have profoundly affected and influenced his outlook . 
The present unrest among the defense services has direct bearing on the Indian body politic . 
During the last three years there have been strikes and refusal to work by servicemen in England , but in India conditions are different . 
When conditions in India improve and a free government is established their demands will be dealt with . 
The only thing that is not correct is that they were not fighting against heavy odds . 
I can sympathise with you if you have been compelled to hoist the Union Jack on your own buildings . 
When things settle down and we are in power the grievances of the servicemen will have to be inquired into . 
Why are the armed-forces armed forces doing all this ? 
The armed-forces armed forces have come to realise their own responsibilities towards their country and the people . 
At the stroke of the midnight hour , when the world sleeps , India will awake to life and freedom . 
Through good and ill fortune alike she has never lost sight of that quest or forgotten the ideals which gave her strength . 
We end today a period of ill fortune and India discovers herself again . 
Are we brave enough and wise enough to grasp this opportunity and accept the challenge of the future ? 
Freedom and power bring responsibility . 
The responsibility rests upon this Assembly , a sovereign body representing the sovereign people of India . 
Before the birth of freedom we have endured all the pains of labor and our hearts are heavy with the memory of this sorrow . 
It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and disease and inequality of opportunity . 
That may be beyond us , but as long as there are tears and suffering , so long our work will not be over . 
And so we have to labor and to work , and work hard , to give reality to our dreams . 
This is no time for petty and destructive criticism , no time for ill will or blaming others . 
They threaten not only the present political structure , under which India has suffered so long , but also the social and economic structure . 
We see it again gathering its strength for another and more powerful and determined move forward . 
None of us can call our trade union movement today strong or ready for successful battle . 
But who can deny that during a few short years we have covered ground which it took generations in other countries to traverse ? 
If he has weakened , it has , not unoften , been due to the weakness of his leaders . 
It is the system that is wrong , the system that is based on the exploitation of the few and the prostitution of labor . 
What is this ideal that you should have ? 
It will not profit you much if there is a change in your masters and your miseries continue . 
You want a living wage and not a dying wage . 
You want to prevent the exploitation of man and to ensure equal opportunities and fair conditions of living for all . 
We are often accused of preaching the class war and of widening the distance between the classes . 
But those who accuse us are singularly unseeing and ignorant of what goes on around them . 
The class war has existed and exists today . 
Only by our removing the causes are we likely to bring peace . 
These will bring only some little relief but we can not refuse anything that brings some comfort to the unhappy worker . 
But we can not at the same time work for such petty relief or compromise on them . 
For us the objective can only be a new order under which the worker will have true freedom and opportunity of growth . 
Any movement which seeks to become a mass movement must necessarily have an economic program for the masses . 
The Programme was part of the notes made during his imprisonment in Central Prison , Naini , sometime after 21 December 1930 . 
He is always shouting about his vested interests while the poor tenant or petty zamindar is seldom audible . 
They are tenants or landless labourers or the unemployed . 
At this stage it is not possible to outline on behalf of the Congress a definite economic and agrarian program . 
A tentative agrarian program is suggested below . 
This is not from a purely socialistic , standpoint but from a Congress viewpoint with some leanings towards socialism . 
In particular , the Congress is opposed to big zamindars and considers them most harmful to the social order . 
How does socialism fit in with the present ideology of the Congress ? 
But I look upon them more as temporary expedients of a transition stage rather than as solutions of our vital problems . 
We require this enormous system of planning and only socialism can provide it . 
How can socialism come to this country ? 
We can not make a country socialist by passing laws . 
Laws are necessary to make the path clear . 
But we have to build up the state . 
We will have to build up society . 
The policy recently outlined by the Bombay Government in respect of industrial workers has the general approval of the Working Committee . 
This policy is by no means a final policy or an ideal one . 
But it represents what can be attempted and done under present conditions and within a relatively short period of time . 
This means that before a trade dispute develops into open conflict there must be an intermediate stage of negotiation or arbitration . 
In India it sometimes leads to communal violence which diverts attention immediately from labor 's demands . 
Labour , above everything , can not afford to be communal or to encourage communalism . 
Towards the end of 1938 a National Planning Committee was constituted at the instance of the Congress . 
It was a strange assortment of different types and it was not clear how such an odd mixture would work . 
There were not enough data for real planning and few statistics were available . 
That cooperation seemed to me worth while even if it involved toning down or weakening the plan in some respects . 
Probably I was too optimistic . 
If conflict was inevitable , it had to be faced ; but if it could be avoided or minimized that was an obvious gain . 
A general consent for a plan was thus of great value . 
Two interesting decisions were made in connection with education . 
It follows , therefore , that the national authority which plans must also have full power to give effect to its planning . 
An essential prerequisite for planning is thus complete freedom and independence for the country and the removal of outside control . 
It is not even possible to draw up a plan on any other basis . 
Our plan for national development must , therefore , be drawn up for a free and independent India . 
This does not mean that we must wait for independence before doing anything towards the development of planned economy . 
All such efforts , however , must be directed towards the realisation of the plan we have drawn up for a free India . 
This should be the background of foundation of our plan . 
Any planning must therefore take note of this fact and base itself on it . 
If we start with the dictum that only under socialism there can be planning , we frighten people and irritate the ignorant . 
The disruptive forces in the country seem to be growing in strength and it almost seems that we are going the way of China . 
Even as I write my mind is filled with that supreme tragedy of our timethe murder of Spanish democracy . 
This is the world we live in . 
And in India also the problems that are arising are perilously like those in Europe . 
Even before the Congress met at Tripuri , twelve out of fifteen members of the Congress Working Committee resigned on 22 February 1939 . 
About two months after the Tripuri Congress , Bose resigned from Congress Presidentship . 
Reaction itself talks a different language , and , using progressive phrases , exploits the unpolitical masses for its own ends . 
Communalism becomes even more definitely the citadel of the reactionary and the bulwark of imperialism . 
But crises and deadlocks when they occur have at least this advantage , that they force us to think . 
Let us then profit in this way in our present impasse . 
It is for this reason that I am venturing to put forward some thoughts and experiences of mine . 
It may be that this way will show itself sooner than people imagine . 
Meanwhile it might be worthwhile for me to trace the various tendencies that have developed in India during the last three years ... , 
If this is so during more or less normal periods , still more is Gandhiji 's guidance necessary when crisis approaches . 
It may not apply directly to the masses , but indirectly the masses are affected by others of this way of thinking . 
Thus we arrive at the conclusion that the full cooperation of this modernist group is also essential for the successful functioning of the Congress . 
The Congress can not obviously be treated as a sectarian group . 
It represents the nation and its doors are open to all who believe in its objective and its methods . 
I think we shall be able to turn these vital currents in the right direction and mould them on scientific lines ... 
Unless this is done , you can not go far ... 
India today has made its mark in the world of science , more especially in theoretical physics and some other departments also . 
We have done well when we have hardly tapped the talent in India . 
Today , of course , we have tapped only less than one per cent of our talent . 
And yet I knew well that there was something else in it , something which supplied a deep inner craving of human beings . 
How else could it have been the tremendous power it has been and brought peace and comfort to innumerable tortured souls ? 
But organised religion , whatever its past may have been , today is very largely an empty form devoid of real content . 
Probably to no two persons will the same complex of ideas and images arise on hearing or reading this word . 
Even these words are vague enough , but they have a much more limited range than ' religion ' . 
Probably it consists of the inner development of the individual , the evolution of his consciousness in a certain direction which is considered good . 
What that direction is will again be a matter for debate . 
There can be no doubt that this inner development powerfully influences the outer environment . 
But it is equally obvious that the outer environment powerfully influences the inner development . 
That is one of the delusions with which we try to comfort ourselves and try to overcome our feeling of inferiority . 
It may be that individuals can rise above circumstances and environment and reach great inner heights . 
But for large groups and nations a certain measure of external development is essential before the inner evolution can take place . 
A class that is downtrodden and exploited can never progress inwardly . 
A nation which is politically and economically subject to can never achieve inner growth . 
Thus even for inner development external freedom and a suitable environment become necessary . 
'' No man can live without religion , '' Gandhiji has written somewhere . 
'' There are some who in the egotism of their reason declare that they have nothing to do with religion . 
But that is like a man saying that he breathes , but that he has no nose . '' 
Our lives are encumbered with the dead wood of this past ; all that is dead and has served its purpose has to go . 
Religions have helped greatly in the development of humanity . 
Philosophy has avoided many of these pitfalls and encouraged thought and inquiry . 
Science ignored the ultimate purposes and looked at fact alone . 
The more we understand life and nature , the less we look for supernatural causes . 
Whatever we can understand and control ceases to be a mystery . 
Gradually they have passed out of its control and become subjects for scientific study . 
The final mysteries still remain far beyond the reach of the human mind and are likely to continue to remain so . 
External events and their consequence affect us powerfully , and yet the greatest shocks come to our minds through inner fears and conflicts . 
And nalure has had its revenge on us . 
Today the keepers of our consciences are men , narrow and bigoted and with no knowledge of anything except empty forms and ceremonials . 
There is nothing more frightful , said Goethe , than a teacher who only knows what the scholars are intended to know . 
There is no room for bigots in the modern world . 
Above all we must gel rid of the gross abuses that have crept into us and threaten to poison our whole system . 
If we can not conquer these weaknesses of ours then we sink deeper and deeper into the morass and perish . 
But I feel that we can and will survive . 
A great deal is being said now about the strengthening and purification of Hinduism as practised today . 
We must therefore welcome the movement to broaden the basis of Hinduism and to rid it of its abuses . 
No great movement of reform ever flourished if it was based on fear and fed on hatred . 
Fear and distrust will multiply and will call out their sister qualities in the other community . 
Gradually India will be converted into armed camps and every man 's hand will be raised against his brother . 
I believe in giving full liberty to every man to adopt the faith of his choice . 
But the present shuddhi movement , so far as I understand it , is based on different reasons and is proceeding on undesirable lines . 
And instead of peace and harmony it has created hatred and distrust and bitterness . 
Toleration has almost ceased to exist and the best of us are not free from ignoble suspicion . 
But today it stands in need of a reminder . 
Most of them would mention the names of Chenghiz Khan and Timur and Mahmud of Ghazni as examples of Muslim tyrants . 
I wonder how many know that Chenghiz Khan was not even a Mohammedan ? 
Or that Timur was as fond of erecting his favorite pyramids of heads in western Asia where Islam flourished as in India ? 
The recommendation was accepted and vast numbers were brutally expelled . 
'' Did our victorious ancestors ever once attempt to extirpate Christianity out of Spain when it was in their power ? 
Did they not suffer your forefathers to enjoy the free use of their rites at the same time that they wore their chains ? 
Behind this struggle for jobs there was a much more important contest which was not exactly communal but which influenced the communal issue . 
The conflict between the two was therefore often economic , but it was always given a communal coloring . 
The representatives of the Hindu Mahasabha have consistently opposed these measures and sided with the banker class . 
The separation of Sind has been consistently opposed by them in . 
It was quite extraordinary to see . 
They went a step further , and made pacts with the representatives of the European Association and others at the R . 
The Muslims had at least spoken with dignity , the Hindu communalists did not even possess this . 
On both sides every effort is made to suppress and avoid the consideration of economic issues . 
Latterly there has been an intersting development in the speaches and statements of some of the Muslim communal leaders . 
Politically , the idea is absurd , economically it is fantastic ; it is hardly worth considering . 
And yet it helps us a little to understand the mentality behind it . 
There are certainly many differences between the traditional Hindu and Muslim philosophies of life . 
Sir Syed Ahmad Khan made his choice on behalf of the Indian Muslims when he started the Aligarh College . 
But what is this ' Muslim ' culture ' ? 
Is it a kind of racial memory of the great deeds of the Arabs , Persians , Turks , etc . 
Or art and music ? 
Or customs ? 
As a matter of fact , even these distinctions are largely urban and they tend to disappear . 
But it is not the beautiful that these people clutch at , but something that is seldom worth while and is often harmful ... 
My recent remarks on Hindu communalists and the Hindu Mahasabha have evidently touched a sensitive spot of many people and have produced strong reactions . 
It would have been preaching to the converted , as the average Hindu is well aware of them . 
It is far more difficult to see one 's own fault than to see the failings of others . 
Their aggressively communal character gives them a pull over the large number of nationalist Muslims who merge themselves in the Congress . 
The leaders of these organizations are patently and intensely communal . 
The speakers further pointed out '' the impracticability of ever governing India through anything but a British agency '' . 
I do not think that these statements represent the views of Muslims generally or even of most of the communally inclined Muslims . 
Essentially , this is an attitude of pure reaction political , cultural , national , social . 
Personally I think that it is generally possible to cooperate with communalists provided the political objective is the same . 
The greatest lesson that history teaches us is that nothing remains static . 
All the time there is expansion , contraction , revolt and upsurge . 
Any race that tried to escape change and immobilize itself became a prisoner caught up in its own trap and decayed . 
In the olden days when distances were very great and traveling was difficult , countries differed . 
the modern world , trains , cars and aeroplanes have almost abolished boundaries and built world unity . 
Books , newspapers , the telegraphs , radio , and cinema influence us and gradually change our ideas . 
We may like them or not , there is no escape from them . 
They should , therefore , be understood and mastered . 
I want to know from Bhaiji what is the stand of our old Hinduism on all these matters ? 
He talks about religion and caste civilisations . 
Again , who are the Muslims ? 
Apparently only those who follow Mr . 
When Maulana Mohamed Ali joined the Congress , Mr . 
It was a small matter that thousands of Muslims were members of the Congress then and millions sympathised and cooperated with it . 
All this seems to me extraordinary and harmful doctrine and most unjust to the Muslims . 
They did not ask me about the communal problem or percentages or separate electorates . 
The Congress welcomes all cooperation ; it has repeatedly stressed the need for a joint front against imperialism . 
Just then the procession arrived at the Town Hall and for some reason or other started stone throwing . 
Evidently thinking that the police or the military had opened fire , they dispersed and vanished with exceeding rapidity . 
And then , after the six months were over ? 
What were we doing all this time ? 
We were in prison . 
For six years now we have been mostly in prison , sometimes as many as sixty or seventy thousand at a time . 
The Muslims deserve their full share in this victory . 
A venturesome member sought to introduce a Child Marriage Restraint Bill , on the lines of the Sarda Act , in the Mysore Council . 
Religion was again saved . 
As a matter of fact they combine frequently enough to combat any movement of reform , social , economic , political . 
Now the separation between society and state , between the Khalifa and the community was complete . 
He ruled with the help of his army , not with the goodwill of the people . 
The separatist tendency in the political field was reflected in cultural life . 
The Khilafat under Banu Omayyah and more definitely under Banu Abbas was only partly Islamic in its political and cultural pattern . 
The Urdu script has to remain as it is , though some slight simplification of it might be attempted . 
It might easily absorb the Sindhi script , which is very similar to it ... 
The two aspects are different and must be dealt with separately . 
Hindi and Urdu are the two main aspects of this language . 
Obviously they have the same basis , the same grammar , the same fund of ordinary words to draw upon . 
To consider Hindi as the language of the Hindus and Urdu as that of the Muslims is absurd . 
Urdu , except for its script , is of the very soil of India and has no place outside India . 
It is even today the home language of large numbers of Hindus in the north . 
It was in the second half of the nineteenth century that the words Hindi and Urdu began to signify something different from each other . 
It is well to bear this in mind , for only then shall we understand what the root cause of the evil is . 
Scratch a separatist in language and you will invariably find that he is a communalist , and very often a political reactionary . 
Round about the court and camp many Persian words were current , and these crept into the language . 
As one moves southwards , away from the centres of Moghal court life , Urdu merges into purer Hindi . 
Hindi is , of course , spoken also in the towns , but Urdu is almost entirely an urban language . 
Every other way will be a superficial way without lasting effect . 
Languages change organically when the people who speak them change . 
This divergence , though unfortunate in itself , is really a sign of healthy growth . 
Both Hindi and Urdu , after a long period of stagnation , have woken up and are pushing ahead . 
They are struggling to give expression to new ideas and leaving the old ruts for new forms of literary expression . 
The vocabulary of each is poor as far as these new ideas are concerned , but each can draw on a rich source . 
The beam in one 's own eye is not seen , the mote in the other 's eye is obvious enough . 
And yet this fear is unjustified and there is no reason for alarm . 
Why should either be jealous of the other ? 
Thus apparently the two variations of the language drift apart . 
Circumstances are too strong for them and a mass audience will demand both simplicity and uniformity . 
It is up to us to help in this process wherever we can and I think we can do something in that direction now . 
But we must not waste our efforts in objecting to this growth of the language even though that growth may exhibit separatist tendencies . 
So the richer they get the better . 
This is not merely a political compromise , as perhaps some people think , but a vital principle to encourage national growth . 
Black marketeers and profiteers have reaped a rich harvest when thirty five lakhs of people died of starvation . 
The condition of the workers is also the worst . 
This happens because we are not free . 
The British Government wants to rule by dividing the people . 
We must unite to ' frustrate this game . 
It is strange that the Hindu Sabha is so loud , in denouncing the Congress and accusing it of favoring the League . 
They both stand for India 's slavery and perpetuation of the British raj . 
This was in AD 1206 . 
For the first time in 500 years after the death of Harsha , India now had a fair degree of political unity . 
Though the new rulers were foreigners they made India their home . 
Then alone can the Indians achieve freedom . 
It is the common people who will have to snatch power from British hands ... 
I regret that the Hindu Mahasabha and the Muslim League are sowing seeds of enmity and destruction by preaching communalism and abusing each other . 
I , therefore , request all , Hindus and Muslims , to unite and increase your strength as early as possible . 
Hindus and Muslims have lived together for thousands of years and they will continue to live so . 
Therefore , the task of strengthening their brotherly bonds is the most essential thing . 
This did not mean any widespread approval of communism , though a growing number were attracted to socialist thought . 
It was with this background that the National Congress began to develop its foreign policy in 1927 . 
No individual or organization in India opposed it . 
Japanese aggression in Manchuria produced even stronger reactions because of sympathy for China . 
But this coming war was likely to be different from the one that had been envisaged before Hitler had arisen . 
War between England and Germany became probable , and if this broke out what then would our policy be ? 
How would we bring in line our nationalism and our internationalism ? 
Those feelings continued but I do not know of any other nationalist movement which has been so free from hatred . 
His nationalism , therefore , had a certain world outlook and was entirely free from any aggressive intent . 
My patriotism includes the good of mankind in general . 
We in India have felt the full weight of imperialism . 
We know exactly what it means , and we are naturally interested in any movement which concerns imperialism . 
Right through their stay there they have adopted the old policy of '' Divide and Rule '' . 
I regret to say that that policy is still very much in evidence . 
Also perhaps you know of what is called the Indian Mutiny , which took place 70 years ago . 
Indeed , many of our best comrades in India usually live in jail , or are exiled and unable to return to their homeland . 
That is the systematic way in which they have crushed the workers and peasants of India , and made India what she is today . 
We read in history , not only ancient but even fairly recent history , of the riches of India . 
It only had the unfortunate result of preventing the political unity of India from taking the shape of a new national unity . 
But the very fact of Hindus and Muslims living together had begun the process of cultural understanding which bore fruit after three centuries . 
The Delhi Sultanate , far from turning this spontaneous process of unification to some purpose , could not even understand it . 
Scholars , saints , poets , generals , statesmen were attracted by Delhi as iron filings by a magnet . 
So the founders of the Sultanate had no time to think what form they should give to the new state . 
The Lodi and Suri dynasties called themselves , as their coins show , simply the representatives of the Khalifa without naming any particular person . 
The concession of fifty per cent granted by Islam to Muslim cultivators does not seem to have ever been given by the Delhi Sultans . 
The Islamic law of inheritance was not strictly enforced . 
From the point of view of national unity it was a period of utter disintegration . 
Among the Rajputs the tribal spirit was so strong as to lead to unending feuds . 
Nobody could work for the unity of India in such an atmosphere . 
Against Muhammad Ghori a last minute rally by Rajput rulers was attempted but it was not complete . 
The powerful raja of Kanauj did not join it and no more than a small fraction of India 's power of resistance was used . 
The establishment of the Delhi Sultanate produced the same feeling among the Hindus as the conquests of the Gurjars and Huns had done . 
Of course , interference with the Dharmashastra in the field of religious and personal law would have been intolerable to the Hindus . 
Moreover , they were in practice , though not in theory , discriminated against in the matter of state service . 
Mohammad Tughlaq was the first ruler who pursued a conciliatory policy towards the Hindus . 
By the end of this period , under Sikandar Lodi and Sher Shah Suri specially , religious discrimination in state service had practically disappeared . 
Hindus had begun to learn Persian , the court language , and to get some of the biggest and most responsible posts . 
This tremendous background of toleration and culture is a precious inheritance for us . 
Above all we should try to combine freedom and civil liberty with discipline and responsibility . 
Yet governments have to shoulder a heavy responsibility and they can not discuss the philosophy of a question when action is demanded . 
In our imperfect world we have often to prefer a lesser evil to a greater one . 
For us it is not merely a matter of giving effect to a program to which we have given adherence . 
They will win the public to their side and thus create an atmosphere which is not favourable to wrong action . 
What this contraband literature is I do not know , nor have I come across any official specification of it . 
But from the type of books seized recently , apparently books dealing with socialism and Russia are considered contraband . 
But long before Hindus became reconciled to the Muslim rulers their relations with the common Muslims had improved considerably . 
The Hindus found their ideas very similar to those of Vedantic philosophy and were naturally attracted by them . 
Quite a large number of Hindus embraced Islam and , even those who did not were now better disposed towards the Muslims . 
Another great force which created a general atmosphere of religious harmony between the Hindus and the Muslims was the Bhakti movement . 
Another interesBg point to be noted is that the notification is dated 1932 , whei pe last Civil Disobedience movement was in full swing . 
We aoe back again from the point of view of government repression and suppression of civil liberties to those palmy days . 
But now came these contraband books to be introduced into India ? 
They came openly through the post or as parcels and successfully passed the customs barriers , in spite of the government notification . 
They were offered for sale and were in fact sold publicly by a hundred bookshops . 
Along with mystical experience as the basis of religion he greatly emphasised moral action . 
His movement of spiritual purification and moral reform of both Hindus and Muslims later developed into a separate religious sect . 
But unfortunately pure mystical experience is not enough to constitute a religion . 
So these religious movements soon crystallised into separate sects with all the adjuncts of positive religions . 
Still , this does not mean that their efforts were wasted . 
They created an atmosphere of religious harmony in India which was not to be seen anywhere else in the Middle Ages . 
In aesthetic consciousness , which is deeply influenced by the physical environment , Hindus and Muslims came still closer to each other . 
In India , during this period painting seems to have been discouraged by the Muslims but Indian music captured their hearts . 
Ibrahim Adil Shah , the king of Bijapur , was a great connoisseur of music and wrote a book on the subject , Nauras . 
The Muslim sufis adored music . 
In short , music was one of the forces which caused the hearts of Hindus and Muslims to beat in unison . 
The conception of a building born in the mind of a Muslim king could not be unaffected by the Indian environment . 
Moreover , the decorative work shows the direct influence of the north Indian Hindu and Jain styles . 
The Muslim states which had seceded from Delhi adopted this style with local modifications more in keeping with the Hindu styles . 
In their small spheres their rulers were the people and understood and respected their feelings and desires . 
They generally abstained from displacing local chiefs and simply levied a tribute on them . 
They associated Hindus with the administration of the state , freely appointing them to small and big posts . 
At the instance of Husain Shah , Maladhar Vasu translated the Bhagwat Gita into Bengali . 
His name is honored and loved not only by history but in legends known to every child in Kashmir . 
He got many Sanskrit books translated into Persian so that Muslims could study the Hindu religion and the ancient Indian culture . 
Babur was the descendant of two great conquerors . 
On the paternal side he was descended from Timur and on the maternal side from Chengis Khan . 
A revolutionary step taken by Shahjehan was the use of marble on a large scale . 
The ornamental effect was largely achieved by beautiful designs worked in a mosaic of multicoloured stones . 
The Persian language , which was its medium of expression , spread during this period to new regions . 
The commercial mentality of the bulk of this society had no other values than material profit and physical pleasure . 
The court theater of Wajid Ali Shah , the Nawab of Oudh probably followed the stage arrangements of the English theater . 
No doubt the ruling family had come from a foreign land , but it had settled down in India and made India its home . 
They do not , however , regard the arhats as objects of devotion but as models of perfection . 
Like Buddhism , Jainism flourished for some time and then began to decline . 
So naturally he was defeated in every round . 
His cotton and wheat were graded inferior and sold at very low prices . 
His indigo could not hold its own against chemical dyes and its cultivation had to be abandoned . 
The Government tried many schemes to help him . 
The direct and indirect consequences of the agricultural depression lowered the general economic level of the country and added to the political unrest . 
Secondary schools suffered from two disadvantages . 
Of course , university education also was imparted through English , but in this case there was some choice of the subjects of study . 
Learning by rote without understanding bad been for centuries the bane of Indian , in fact all Eastern education . 
In music the combination of harmony with melody and in painting the emphasis on perspective and proportion showed a distinct Western influence . 
Most of this was , as we said , the work of those whose education had an Oriental foundation . 
Their verbosity , confused thinking , involved writing . 
In short , the intellectual as well as spiritual foundation of colonial English culture was hollow and weak . 
The doctrines of karma and sansar also occupy an important place in the teaching of the Upanishads . 
Karma is the fundamental law of the moral world . 
Every act , good or bad , performed by man , has an impact on his personality . 
Now character in its turn determines action followed by its consequences . 
This is a vicious circle in which our mind is involved . 
At this level man becomes free from the compelling force of karma . 
The idea of sansar is a logical consequence of karma combined with , that of the immortality of the soul . 
Besides , philosophical thinkers made their own original speculation on metaphysical problems and founded their own systems called the six systems of Hindu philosophy . 
It regards both the body and the soul as real and does not believe in a universal being or God . 
This deficiency was made up later by Patanjali 's Yoga . 
From the theoretical point of view Patanjali 's Yoga has no independent status but is the practical sequel to Sankhya philosophy . 
In this they were helped by the leaders of the Hindu and Muslim religious and cultural movements . 
Fortunately just at that time gandhi , who fulfilled all these conditions , appeared on the political horizon of India . 
gandhi took up the challenge by setting up the Satyagraha Sabha , with a program of nationwide civil resistance . 
The modern educated fought among themselves over the relations between the Muslims and the Congress . 
They , however , were more successful in dividing Hindus and Muslims than in luring them into communalist parties . 
The Muslims generally attached more importance to the opinion of the latter in matters of religion . 
Before answering this question it would be better to briefly survey the present cultural situation of the Muslim community in India . 
So far they have taken a definite attitude to two of its principles . 
For them religion is , as it always was , the highest value . 
He devoted the last seven years of his life to initiating the disciples who had gathered round him into the mysteries of mystical ecstasy . 
Here different religions and cultures have to live a harmonious life of peace and love . 
To create that atmosphere and develop this harmony and love is the greatest problem for India today . 
The philosopher , Radhakrishnan , was the greatest representative of ' Hindu Nationalism ' if the word nationalism is used in an elevated sense . 
But at the same time he exhorted them to give up the idea of reviving the past and reconcile themselves with the present . 
While emphasising the need of maintaining a vital link with history he warned against the vain attempt to reverse the course of history . 
Beginning with the unfavourable factors , the most prominent obstacle to cultural unity is the variety of languages . 
So until there is a link language and it is known throughout the country , an effective cultural unity is not possible . 
The intuitive apprehension of unity in diversity is , as we have already said , one of the fundamental characteristics of the Indian mind . 
This consciousness of the manifold phenomena converging on a central point which gives them reality and life is essentially the religious experience . 
So the distinctive feature of the Indian character can be called religiousness . 
Among them the most liberal and the greatest opponent of orthodoxy was Tagore . 
So he had to turn to the ancient Upanishads which had been guiding seekers after truth for the last 2500 years . 
Often the whole family , even if very large , lives on the earnings of one person who slaves himself to death . 
During the past decade , however , there has been a marked change in the situation . 
The food , dress and general way of living of both communities is , barring minor differences , the same . 
There are variations but these are regional not communal . 
The stories of the Mahabharata and the Ramayana told in various folksongs had been current among the people for many generations . 
Strictly speaking the Ramayana is not a religious poem but may be regarded as the first specimen of secular poetry . 
Copies of these reports , and in one case a translation into English , have been given to me . 
I make no complaint of this reporting and I do not suggest that deliberate distortions have been made . 
It is not my intention to give details of the many errors and mistakes in these reports . 
That would waste your time , Sir , and mine , and would serve little purpose . 
I am not here to defend myself , and perhaps what I say in this statement will make your task easier . 
That was a position which we could never tolerate , whatever the consequences . 
The use of stone in buildings had begun a little before Asoka 's time . 
Of these , the royal palaces have been destroyed by the ravages of time . 
The Asoka pillars cut out of solid stone are from 40 to 60 feet high with a polished surface shining like a mirror . 
These paintings executed from the second century BC to the third century AD present the characteristics of Buddhist art at its best . 
You are a symbol of that state . 
He may muse over fate , of empires which have always fallen because of this weakness , and call it destiny . 
Certain causes inevitably produce certain results . 
We know the causes ; the results are following inexorably in their train . 
It is a small matter what happens to me in this trial or subsequently . 
These six or seven years are bound up in my inner life with Kamala and you . 
Of course even before this period both of you played a major part in my personal and inner life . 
It was in those days of the early thirties that I wrote those hundreds of letters to you which came out subsequently as Glimpses . 
We can not escape the elemental and natural forces working through the myriads of human beings . 
No doubt , human beings are bound to be sensible , thinking and thoughtful , but they can not escape these elemental forces . 
You will see , before very long in the world , tremendous human cyclones ; and Our political and economic problems are very important . 
Without solving them we can not do anything . 
But , after all , political freedom is not an end in itself . 
It is a means whereby we can live a good life , and a means of solving the problem of human relationship . 
We have to reach conclusions about them so that we might build the India of the future . 
Democratic it had been previously also but it had so far been limited in franchise and restricted to the upper classes . 
Industrial workers also came in but as individuals and not in their separate organized capacity . 
But Vishnu had a single aspect . 
He was the preserver of the world , merciful towards men and provider of their welfare . 
His wife Lakshmi was the goddess of wealth and plenty . 
The religious dogma took the following form . 
Vishnu comes to the world again and again for the help and salvation of men . 
The human form assumed by a god is called his incarnation . 
Thus far the alternative had been talking and passing resolutions , or terroristic activity . 
Both of these were set aside and terrorism was especially condemned as opposed to the basic policy of the Congress . 
His ambition , he said , was ' to wipe every tear from every eye . ' 
Often Gandhi toned down his position to meet the wishes of others , sometimes he accepted even an adverse decision . 
It may be that some of us may join the ranks of the exploiters , but that will not bring freedom to the many . 
We must aim , therefore , at the destruction of all imperialism and the reconstruction of society on another basis . 
That basis must be one of cooperation , and that is another name for socialism . 
Before we approach our ideal , we have to combat two sets of opponents political and social . 
We have to overcome our alien rulers as well as the social reactionaries of India . 
The infection from one affected part continually spreads to other parts and the disease takes firmer root . 
Your political and social philosophy must , therefore , be a complete whole and your program must comprise every department of national activity . 
Religion has in the past often been used as an opiate to dull men 's desire for freedom . 
Kings and emperors have exploited it for their own benefit and led people to believe in their divine right to rule . 
Priests and other privileged classes have claimed a divine sanction for their privileges . 
In India today and indeed in the world there is a great deal of argument and debate on matters political and social . 
From all this argument two sets of opposing ideas emerge . 
One is tht reformist idea which believes in a gradual betterment with the consent of those in power or in positions of privilege today . 
All those who stand today under this flag are Indians , not Hindus , not Muslims , but Indians . 
The volunteers , who have saluted the flag today , should be prepared to lay down their lives for its honor . 
I find it difficult to appreciate why political or economic rights should depend on the membership of a religious group or community . 
We have only to find out some way whereby we may root out the fear and distrust that darken our horizon today . 
We have three major problems the minorities , the Indian states , and labour and peasantry . 
I have dealt already with the question of minorities . 
But in no event can the people of the states be ignored . 
Our third major problem is the biggest of all . 
And the measure of the strength of our national movement will be the measure of their adherence to it . 
We can only gain them to our side by our espousing their cause , which is really the country 's cause . 
So the Brahmins had complete control over the religious and social life of the people . 
With all their influence over religion and social life , the Brahmins had little hand in administration or government . 
As purohits their main duty was to preside over the observance of religious rites . 
Even the four original castes were now being divided into smaller groups . 
The Congress has often expressed its goodwill toward them , but beyond that it has not gone . 
The Congress , it is said , must hold the balance fairly between capital and labour and zamindar and tenant . 
The only way to right it is to do away with the domination of any one class over another . 
The All India Congress Committee accepted . 
The question is not one merely of wages and charity doled out by an employer or landlord . 
The sole trusteeship that can be fair is the trusteeship of the nation and not of one individual or a group . 
Many Englishmen honestly consider themselves the trustees for India , and yet to what a condition have they reduced our country ! 
We have to decide for whose benefit industry must be run and the land produce food . 
Provincial committees should immediately get the resolution translated and widely distributed in their respective provinces . 
We believe , therefore , that India must sever the British connection and attain Purna Swaraj or complete independence . 
Politically , India 's status has never been so reduced as under the British regime . 
No reforms have given real political power to the people . 
The tallest of us have to bend before foreign authority . 
We recognise , however , that the most effective way of gaining our freedom is not through violence . 
Why should we shout '' Inqilab Zindabad '' ? 
Why should we want revolution and change '' ? 
India of course wants a big change today . 
But even after the big change that we all want has come and India is independent , we can not rest quiescent . 
Nothing in the world that is alive remains unchanging . 
Fresh water runs on , and if you stop it , it becomes stangnant . 
Whether we want to or not , we grow old . 
We have to put up with these changes . 
But there are many who refuse to admit that the world changes . 
They keep their minds closed and locked up and will not permit any new ideas to come into them . 
Even so in our own country , we are today in the middle of a revolution . 
We want to clear out all the stagnant pools and let in clean fresh water everywhere . 
We must sweep away the dirt and the poverty and misery from our country . 
But who dare doubt that the children of our ` generation will tolerate no slavery or cowardice ? 
But we have given it such a push this time that no one can stop it . 
We have to see what the nation can do and what it can not . 
This experience has convinced us all the more of the efficacy of that unique weapon . 
But though we have decided to follow this method there are others who have adopted another method . 
They are our brave comrades . 
Bhagat Singh , Rajguru and Sukhdev were hanged on 23 March 1931 . 
'' What was all this about , '' I asked them , '' this Bande Mataram and Bharat Mata ki jai ? '' 
He volunteered to tell me all about it but I did not encourage him . 
Surely you and the like of you . 
Remember that Bharat Mata is you and it is your ` own jai . '' 
They listened intently and a great light seemed to dawn on their heavy peasant minds . 
This system has vanished from the rest of the world and left to itself , it would have vanished from India also long ago . 
We recognise no such treaties and we shall in no event accept them . 
But we need not trouble ourselves with legal research as the practice and facts are plain enough . 
Yet in India there are gleams of hope though dark clouds assail us . 
And the brightest of these rays comes from the newly awakened people of the states . 
Strong language will not help us ; it is often a sign of weakness and a substitute for action . 
We who had suffered as a subject people knew well what this would mean for others . 
The horror that enveloped Holland and Belgium , the supreme tragedy of France , deeply moved us . 
The imminent peril of England made us feel that we should not add to her difficulties and embarrassments . 
We tried hard to find a way out , honorable and advantageous to both India and England . 
We made new proposals , even going beyond our own mandate given at the last sessions of the Congress at Ramgarh . 
We pledged ourselves for the organization of Indian defense and help in the war effort . 
But we could only do so as free people , with the goodwill and cooperation of India 's millions . 
That freedom must be declared and a provisional national government formed , which would represent not one party only but all the important elements . 
The fundamental basis for this proposal was the recognition that the imperialist structure had to go . 
The Viceroy and the British Government have said a final '' No '' to us and to India . 
I repeat that it is incorrect to say that there is any new parting of the ways , for our ways never lay together . 
Our very restraint appears to have made them think that we were incapable of any action . 
This was not always possible or always attempted , especially in actual conflicts with the police or other armed-forces armed forces ... 
It is very difficult to arrive at even an approximately correct figure . 
Popular estimates place the number of deaths at 25COMMA000 , but probably this is an exaggeration . 
Perhaps 10COMMA000 may be nearer the mark . 
He is famous for the little gems of poetry called shatakas which show great depth of conception and artistic skill . 
Religious and intellectual life was dominated by formalism and authoritarianism . 
The two sects of Puranic Hinduism worshipping Shiva and Vishnu had developed into two separate religions . 
There was religious consciousness in abundance but it had no freshness or depth . 
Writings on religion were confined to supplements to the Puranas or duplications of the old smritis . 
This was also true of drama , poetry and other branches of literature . 
All the juice was pressed out of them by rigours of technique . 
Two remain the United States of America and the Soviet Unionand both are powerfully expansionist in their different ways . 
That process has now been directed to the Middle East and Iran is at present experiencing both internal conflict and external pressure . 
It would appear that the only satisfactory solution is for a united China to be built up on a fully democratic basis . 
When does this happy consummation take place ? 
Indeed no responsible person can take shelter behind those treaties of over a hundred years ago . 
The way of approach to this problem is to make the people 's welfare and progress the primary consideration . 
This involves political freedom , a democratic structure , fundamental liberties and rights guaranteed and an independent judiciary . 
It involves equally economic freedom and the removal of all fetters , feudal or other , on the growth of the individual . 
Then there are backward classes and aboriginals who are kept down by law and custom and have no scope for growth . 
What of the Princes ? 
Whatever their individual virtues or failings may be , it is really the system with which we are concerned . 
For that system the British Government has been and is responsible . 
Our approach to the Princes should be a friendly one , an invitation to them to join hands in the great tasks ahead . 
Responsible and thinking people among the services in India feel themselves standing on two stools . 
What is he to do ? 
The word discipline has full meaning only in the army of a free country . 
The Indian soldier today is different from the Indian soldier of the last war . 
The wall of isolation which hitherto kept him away from the people of the country has disappeared . 
At your command I am here , and I am grateful for this honor and the confidence which it implies . 
But you could have given no greater sign of the infancy and weakness of your movement . 
Our country today is under the domination of another and the sentiment of nationalism is strong . 
And yet we can not afford to ignore them for our future is intimately bound up with them . 
The trouble lies deeper as you all know . 
The battle cry of an economic program is a far more powerful one for the peasant than that of Swaraj alone . 
The fear that any detailed economic program is likely to irritate some groups is perfectly justified . 
\* The Congress does not desire to precipitate a class conflict . 
It is wise in avoiding it , but it must always be remembered that the conflict has been there and is there . 
Therefore it can not be wholly ignored , and circumstances might at any time force the issue before the Congress for immediate ' decision . 
Those who shape Congress policy must be prepared for such a contingency and must be clear about certain matters . 
Our ultimate ideal should be large nationalised farms , and peasant proprietors cultivating their own farms but without the right of alienation . 
The latter restriction is desirable as otherwise big estates would grow up again . 
Therefore we must leave it out and just aim at peasant proprietorship at present . 
The big estates can be broken up by the well recognised and usual methods employed in Western countries , like England and Ireland . 
A principle that must be borne in mind in fixing the tax or rent is that of a living wage or income . 
The Congress is not against them , nor does it seek to injure them in any way . 
The big zamindaris should be acquired by the state and compensation given . 
What this compensation should be is to be determined later but it is clear that full compensation is impossible . 
This is very wrong from the Congress viewpoint . 
Indeed , it is playing into the hands of the government . 
This is the very policy adopted by the government in Gujarat . 
The very idea of nationhood had completely disappeared . 
It , therefore , did not fall a prey to political disintegration like the north . 
His son Rajendra Chola further increased his dominion by annexing the region along the sea . 
Favourable conditions in the south saved intellectual life from the stagnation which had come over it in the north . 
Here the period is marked by a remarkable movement and activity in religious thought . 
Of these mystic poets the votaries of Shiva were called Adyars and those of Vishnu as Alwars . 
Ideas are the essential basis for action . 
But behind ideas there must be the men to carry them out and the character and discipline to translate them into results . 
You know that the whole conception of modern socialism is something fairly new . 
It came more into prominence in the early days of industrial revolution . 
But what is called modern or scientific socialism is Marxism . 
When we talk of socialism , it is essentially ' Marxism we speak of . 
As a socialist I must challenge anything unless I understand it . 
Socialism aims at the abolition of class struggle by the abolition of classes and having one class . 
Socialism means that there should not be such enmity , such hatred and such violence . 
The control of the means of production gave them control over the life of the community . 
Thus in the days when the principal means of production was the land , the landlords were the dominant class . 
Land is still an important means of production but there are also other means of it . 
Capitalism today is in a tremendous process of decay . 
It is not a question of our going about cursing this individual capitalist or that for having money . 
This idea of cursing capitalists or landlords individually has nothing to do with our idea of understanding what capitalism is . 
When we attack capitalism , what do we attack ? 
The ultimate goal is far . 
We can not get it suddenly . 
But still we can not separate it from the idea of independence . 
I do not think that we can win Swaraj in India without the effective help of the masses of the country . 
In a fight for Swaraj the socialist approach to the masses is important . 
One of the things that attracts me towards socialism is its freedom from dogma . 
I find to my horror that some people go about and talk of socialism in terms of phrases and slogans . 
I think this is the best way of running down socialism . 
The strike is a powerful weapon , the only real weapon of labor . 
Behind the strike there must be a strong organization and public opinion . 
This organization seldom develops if there are frequent partial and sporadic strikes which fail . 
They must remember that any form of violence , whether during a strike or at other times , is injurious to labor 's interests . 
As a step towards such industrialization , a comprehensive scheme of national planning should be formulated . 
So one thing led to another and it was impossible to isolate anything or to progress in one direction without corresponding progress in another . 
The fascination of this work grew upon me and , I think , upon the other members of our committee also . 
Not to have such a guiding policy was a serious drawback , yet there was no help for it . 
Obviously we could not consider any problem , much less plan , without some definite aim and social objective . 
International trade was certainly not excluded , but we were anxious to avoid being drawn into the whirlpool of economic imperialism . 
It lays down that the economic regeneration of the country can not take place without industrialisation . 
It may be impracticable to insist on state management of the existing industries in which vested interests have already taken root . 
Some historians think this foreign influence was of Nestorian Christianity which had prevailed in south India for a long time . 
The contact of Muslim Arabs with south India had already begun in the latter part of the preceding period . 
Soon they had their settlements in Sri Lanka and on the coast of Malabar . 
Even according to the present Congress policy it is our objective to nationalise key industries and key services and banking , etc . 
That is something definite to go upon . 
You might refer in this connection to the Karachi resolution of the Congress on fundamental rights , etc . 
Further , we should try to aim at , as far as possible , producing for consumption rather than for profit . 
In any event , the profit motive should be subordinated to the social motive . 
How far this is possible under present circumstances , it is difficult to say . 
Perhaps it is not possible . 
If so , inevitably we have to consider the changes necessary to make it possible . 
Thus the very people to whom socialism should have appealed were pushed away and made hostile ... 
The leaders of the Congress disapproved strongly of these developments . 
I found this atmosphere of bitterness and conflict on my return . 
I was full at the time of the idea of popular fronts and joint fronts , which were being formed in some European countries . 
In Europe where class and other conflicts were acute , it had been possible for this cooperation on a common platform . 
In India these conflicts were still in their early stages and were completely overshadowed by the major conflict against imperialism . 
It applied fully to India and to our struggle and that was enough for me . 
I decided to devote my energies towards bridging the gulf between the old leaders and the new socialist group . 
The old leaders were tried men with prestige and influence among the masses and the experience of having guided the struggle for many years . 
Nightly I saw the bombs fall from the air , raining death and destruction on the populace . 
Later I visited Czechoslovakia and saw yet another tragedy , yet another betrayal , unroll itself before my eyes . 
All these events impressed themselves powerfully upon me and I tried to understand our own struggle for freedom in relation to them . 
In this swift changing drama federation and many of the lesser problems of India seemed to lose importance . 
Bigger things were afoot and it was time that India also thought in terms of them ... 
I am far from being an orthodox Marxist , nor does any other orthodoxy appeal to me . 
But I am convinced that the old liberal approach in England or elsewhere is no longer valid . 
Today the community has to be organised in order to establish social and economic justice . 
Above all , he will have the freedom which comes from economic security , which only a small number possess today . 
I think India and the world will have to march in this direction of socialism unless catastrophe brings ruin to the world . 
It can not be used in a disciplined or organised manner . 
I am not optimist enough to imagine that out of this chaos a free , united , and advanced India will emerge . 
No one in India thinks in terms of this type of violence . 
This is folly , and if continued the consequences are likely to be disastrous . 
Politically the Congress is overwhelmingly left ; socially it has leftist leanings , but is predominantly center . 
When we have done that we can philosophise and think of God . 
So , science must think in terms of the 400 million persons in India ... 
Or , before any such advances influence human life sufficiently , man may destroy the civilization he has built and have to start anew . 
There is no visible limit to the advance of science , if it is given the chance to advance . 
With the help of philosophy it may go a little further and venture even on these high seas . 
And when both science and philosophy fail us , we shall have to rely on such other powers of apprehension as we may possess . 
For there appears to be a definite stopping place beyond which reason , as the mind is at present constituted , can not go ... 
But this criticism applies in equal or even greater measure to all the injunctions which philosophy and religion have laid upon us . 
The scientific temper points out the way along which man should travel . 
Science deals with the domain of positive knowledge but the temper which it should produce goes beyond that domain . 
The ultimate purposes of man may be said to be to gain knowledge , to realize truth , to apredate goodness and beauty . 
Very different is the method of religion . 
Concerned as it is principally with the regions beyond the reach of objective inquiry , it relies on emotion and intuition . 
It tends to close and limit the mind of man , and to produce a temper of a dependent , unfree person ... 
As knowledge advances , the domain of religion , in the narrow sense of the word , shrinks . 
It seems to me that the old Aryans were a very ' positive ' people . 
They looked forward in the realms of thought , as well as towards the countries of the earth , for fresh advances and conquests . 
A passive , inactive and indolent race forgetful of the idea of freedom or honor . 
Our guiding principles in life are a number of restrictions . 
Let us therefore try to learn each other 's history and understand each other 's past culture . 
The future can only hold out its promise to us if we learn to march together . 
Our chief enemy today is absence of reason , and its necessary consequence bigotry . 
There will then be few obstacles to unity and progress . 
I was also sorry for a foolish error into which I had fallen . 
After 1857 the heavy hand of the British fell more on the Muslims than on the Hindus . 
They considered the Muslims more aggressive and militant , possessing memories of recent rule in India , and therefore more dangerous . 
The Muslims had also kept away from the new education and had few jobs under the Government . 
The Hindus had taken far more kindly to the English language and clerkly jobs , and seemed to be more docile . 
The upper classes were secure in their inheritance and adding to it , with little fear of a successful challenge . 
It was the age of a growing liberalism and a firm belief in a great destiny . 
It is not surprising that the Indians who went there were fascinated by this imposing spectacle . 
More Hindus went there to begin with and they returned admirers of Europe and England . 
Gradually they got used to the shine and glamour , and the first surprise wore off . 
Visiting England in 1869 , he wrote letters home giving his impressions . 
English education meant government jobs , security , influence , honor . 
Sir Syed 's decision to concentrate on Western education for Muslims was undoubtedly a right one . 
Sir Syed 's activities , therefore , although seemingly very moderate , were in the right revolutionary direction . 
Both were thoroughly moderate and dependent on British rule . 
These Hindu politicians looked up to the shining lights of English liberalism Gladstone , Bright , etc . 
Probably they admired the Tories and the landed classes of England ... 
In a period of transition a progressive impulse may soon play out its part and be reduced to functioning as a brake . 
The Indian Liberals are an obvious example of this . 
They remind us often that they are the true heirs of the old Congress tradition and we of a later day are interlopers . 
It is possible that had he lived a generation later , he would himself have given another orientation to that message . 
This narrow outlook and hankering after government service was not confined to the Muslim students of Aligarh and elsewhere . 
Within a decade the Indian Muslims seemed to have outstripped the Congress and were actually giving the lead to it . 
And yet Sir Valentine had superficially every reason to come to the conclusion he did . 
But behind this superficial lining up with the British Government other forces were working . 
Inevitably the new Muslim bourgeoisie was feeling more and more dissatisfied with existing conditions and was being drawn towards the nationalist movement . 
The Aga Khan himself had to take notice of this and to warn the British in characteristic language . 
Jawaharlal Nehru was arrested on 26 December 1931 , released on 30 August 1933 and arrested again on 12 February 1934 . 
The ' recent remarks ' mentioned in the extracts given here were made at an address to the students of Benares Hindu University . 
I am told that this is a consequence of Muslim communalism and reactionary policy and I have been chided for not blaming Muslim communalists . 
It was the policy which was adopted by the Muslim communalists with some apparent temporary advantages to themselves . 
It believes in the eternal Sanatan Law of stimulus and response , namely , responsive cooperation . 
The only way it has tried to meet their communalism is by its own variety of communalism . 
But it has not , so far as I am aware , said a word in criticism of the White Paper scheme . 
I am not personally interested in petty criticisms of that scheme because I think that it is wholly bad and is incapable of improvement . 
This unconditional submission to the will of God is Islam in its literal as well as theological sense . 
This brings the life of man in harmony with the law of the universe which is the law of man 's own nature . 
About the manner in which sovereignty is delegated to the Khalifa , there is a difference of opinion among interpreters of the Quran . 
The Prophet , by applying them to the Arab society of his time , formulated the first positive law of Islam . 
When does Bhaiji think our Hindu ' self started ? 
On the coming of the Aryans ? 
Why so ? 
Why should we abandon the earlier Mohenjodaro ; and then what happens to the Dravidian period ? 
Are the Dravidians not entitled to say that the Aryans are outsiders who have forcibly settled here ? 
A line of demarcation is difficult to draw . 
The sign of any living thing lies in its capacity to grow and change . 
Thus , in the final analysis , there are only two forces in India todayBritish imperialism and the Congress representing Indian nationalism . 
The communal groupings have no such real importance in ' Spite of occasional importance being thrust upon them ... 
The Congresses a democratic organization with its roots deep down in the Indian soil . 
Its doors are open to every Indian who believes in independence . 
For it the dominant issue is that of independence to enable us to get rid of poverty and the exploitation of the people . 
What does the Muslim League stand for ? 
We soon found out from their cries and the many other standards they carried . 
We mixed with the crowd and marched along for some distance by the side of the procession . 
But today other issues have also assumed prominence social and economic . 
Indeed this demand ought to have been first made by the Muslims . '' 
This fear of communism has driven many liberals and other middle groups in Europe to fascism and reaction . 
In India this covers a wide field and there are few departments of life which can not be connected with religion . 
Yet the problem remains and has to be faced . 
It has to be faced for the moment because of its communal and political implications . 
A living language is a throbbing , vital thing , ever changing , ever growing and mirroring the people who speak and write it . 
Else the temporary advantage is apt to prove a grave disadvantage and a burden later on . 
India , both historically and by virtue of its importance , has been and is the classic land , of modern imperialism . 
When will Indian freedom come ? 
The strength of these movements can be judged from the British reaction to them . 
We realise then that we can not isolate India or the Indian problem from that of the rest of the world . 
There were ups and downs , and sometimes it appeared as if the revolutionary urge had exhausted itself and things were settling down . 
They made good progress , and then suddenly there was a military rebellion , headed by the army chiefs and other reactionaries . 
How did these military bosses dare to raise the flag of rebellion ? 
It is clear enough now . 
The Spanish Government and people were taken aback . 
We see how class feelings are the final criteria in meeting a crisis . 
Frenchmen and Englishmen hang their heads in shame . 
Accept Hitler 's demands , or we also will range ourselves against you . 
In torment and agony of spirit the Czech cabinet sits continuously for nearly forty eight hours . 
The Czech Government surrenders . 
How shall we describe this ? 
The perfect description has been given by someone . 
What are they to do ? 
Is it the break ? 
Is it war ? 
The strain grows and grim serious faces pour over the latest editions of the newspapers in the cafes . 
Further news . 
They will meet again . 
But behind it all the agony of suspense . 
What further betrayals ? 
The Working Committee have done a great service by their constructive lead to the nation . 
In effect , therefore , the Working Committee have given a lead to the progressive forces all over the world . 
But we are sure that those whom it reaches will welcome it and support a clear enunciation of war and peace aims ... 
What are the professed war aims of the Western Allies ? 
We agree . 
But for the present we consider Indian freedom in its world context of imperialism . 
A world which has had enough of fascism can not tolerate imperialism . 
There should of course be no secret treaties , no conquests , no indemnities or reparations , no bargains over colonial areas . 
For it is that application that touches the minds and hearts of the people and impresses the world . 
Even the shock of war has not had much effect on their mental processes or their ancient ways . 
That is the way democracy functions . 
A war policy for a nation must inevitably first take into consideration the defense of that country . 
All this can only be done by a popular government . 
Even more important is the development of industries to supply war and other needs . 
Industries must develop on a vast scale in India during war time . 
So the great European War is already past history after five years . 
What stark horror Europe has passed through during these years more especially Poland , Russia and Germany ! 
' Berlin dies in the ashes of desolation ' is a headline today in the newspaper . 
In this heap of ashes lie the remains of Hitlerism & Nazism the proud challenge for world dominion . 
My mind goes back to these years and picture after picture come up before it . 
And then it stops at the final scene the terrible present desolation of large parts of Germany . 
This is the end of all the pomp & glory and proud boasting . 
And yet Nazi Germany has died hard , very hard . 
It did not lack courage . 
The second extract is from Jawaharlal Nehru 's letter to Indira Gandhi , 1 May 1945 . 
What a \* shambles eastern and central Europe have become , a vast pit of destruction and ruin and ashes . 
From Stalingrad and the Caucasus in the east this trail of fire and death stretches right across Germany to Holland and Belgium . 
Whether madness and death are the fate of man in the near future , or something better , no one can say . 
But it is certain that the way of the atom bomb is not the way of peace or freedom . 
What has brought you , the men and women of Asia , here ? 
Why have you come from various countries of this mother continent of ours and gathered together in this ancient city of Delhi ? 
Some of us , greatly daring , sent you invitations for this Conference and you gave a Warm welcome to that invitation . 
And yet it was not merely the call from , us , but some deeper urge that brought you here . 
We stand at the end of an era and on the threshold of a new period of history . 
But now the political upheaval directly hit their official status and privileges and indirectly undermined their social position and influence . 
On the whole , the Muslim kings maintained peace and order , ruled justly and gave religious and cultural freedom to their Hindu subjects . 
No doubt they had changed civil and criminal law and introduced some provisions of the Islamic law . 
But in India it was nothing new that rulers should enforce their own law on their subjects professing another religion . 
Both the Hindu and the Buddhist rajas had done it . 
Asia , after a long period of quiescence , has suddenly become important again in world affairs . 
Here the mind of man searched unceasingly for truth and the spirit of man shone out like a beacon . 
This dynamic Asia from which great streams of culture flowed in all directions gradually became static and unchanging . 
With the coming of British rule in India these contacts were broken off and India was almost completely isolated from the rest of Asia . 
The land routes have revived and air travel suddenly brings us very near to one another . 
As that domination . 
In this Conference and in this work there are no leaders and no , followers . 
All countries of Asia have to meet together on an equal basis in a common task and endeavor . 
It is fitting that India should play her part in this new phase of Asian development . 
Because of this , the history of India is a long history of her relations with the other countries of Asia . 
There came the great cultural stream from Iran to India in remote antiquity . 
Nevertheless , we all changed in the process and in India today all of us are mixed products of these various influences . 
I therefore regret greatly the attempt to boycott the Jugantar . 
Anything that happens to them draws public attention and public support . 
For this habit grows with use and gradually the public mind gets accustomed to the misuse of its powers by the government . 
So we search for new ways , new aspects of the truth more in harmony with our environment . 
And we question each other and debate and quarrel and evolve any number of '' isms '' and philosophies . 
And yet if we take such a dismal view we have not learned aright the lesson of life or of history . 
For history teaches us of growth and progress and of the possibility of an infinite advance for man . 
We specialise in studying biological diversity . 
There are many organizations that monitor local biodiversity . 
For example , volunteers ring birds to track migration routes . 
You can find out about ways to volunteer at your local library . 
This warmer air is allowed to escape at the top . 
It will also provide new laboratory facilities for the researchers who care for and study these collections . 
For further information , see the Phase Two site . 
The Darwin Centre is founded on a new way of integrating collections , research and communication . 
We are bringing the science and public spheres together . 
If you would like to know more , and to get involved , please visit the Phase Two website . 
Darwin 's life 
This project is named after Charles Darwin , the renowned naturalist . 
There are three reasons for this . 
Many of these collections are now held at this Museum . 
Thirdly , communication was central to Darwin 's research . 
Darwin 's theory of evolution is one of the cornerstones of our work . 
It helps us understand how species are connected with one another . 
Scientists are trying to understand how the diversity of species in Lake Baikal , Russia , evolved . 
During the many years in which he refined his theory , Darwin gained most of his evidence by lengthy correspondence with experts . 
Taxonomists are the scientists who bring order to this diversity , and name the animals and plants . 
In studying the natural world , there have been many different taxonomies proposed for the diversity we see around us . 
Taxonomies arrange things according to their apparent similarities and differences . 
Each species has a unique ancestry , and can be grouped according to how closely it is related to other living things . 
This is systematics , which aims towards a ' correct ' taxonomy based upon the evolutionary relationships of organisms . 
It uses more and more powerful techniques , such as genetic analyses , to determine ' relatedness ' . 
Analysing large groups of specimens in this way is extremely complex , with thousands of different comparisons possible . 
When analyzing tens of species , there are so many possible ancestries that computing power is essential . 
With hundreds of species , the problem is even greater . 
What is their value to society , in the UK and internationally ? 
How are specimens collected today ? 
What are the ethical considerations ? 
Pressures on nature 
In the long term , there are many threats to our biodiversity and environment . 
What are the main threats and how is the museum helping to combat them ? 
Guides , research papers and books are all products of the scientific and academic work being carried out at the Museum . 
Guides that allow people to identify living things are a normal product of a taxonomist 's work . 
Many countries face great environmental challenges . 
The internet is becoming the fastest and cheapest way to deliver the knowledge they need to conserve their natural resources . 
We preserve our specimens in many different ways . 
By contrast , the important characteristics of butterflies are their wing patterns . 
The best way to preserve them is by drying and storing them away from sunlight . 
Using anatomical details of tiny arthropods to study evolution in a Russian lake 
Efforts to stop an organism 's natural decay process start as soon as it is collected . 
Touch the images to see how these specimens were preserved . 
Our growing frozen tissue collection will enable future researchers to readily study the cells and DNA of organisms collected today . 
It is the first time that a collection has been created here with a view to using it in a very specific way . 
Past and future collecting 
Should we be preserving different parts of specimens in a variety of ways in anticipation of how research techniques may change in the future ? 
How are research projects leading to new collections ? 
There are many ways that our collection can become damaged . 
We take many steps to safeguard against this , and conserve our collections for future use . 
Once in the collection , the only line of defense against pests is to stop them getting in . 
Light , temperature and humidity levels in the stores are carefully controlled to slow down this process . 
In your house , the temperature changes regularly during a 24 hour cycle . 
In the Darwin Centre spirit collection stores , the temperature is a constant 13C all day , all year round . 
Dust , handling and exposure to different environments take their toll on our many different collections . 
Specimens need to be checked regularly for damage by pests or the environment , or for evaporation of alcohol . 
How do we collect specimens and information to enhance our collections and further our research ? 
How does science progress ? 
What methods do our researchers use in their studies ? 
Research is a highly creative process , in which new ideas are always needed . 
Working in teams , and discussing research with others , help provide these ideas . 
Many of the most creative periods in science are characterised by scientists of diverse areas of expertise working together . 
For example , Crick , Franklin , Watson and Wilkins working out the structure of DNA in the 1950s . 
Email and the internet ensure that this debate involves research groups across the world . 
When a research project has ended , its results must be communicated so others can build upon its conclusions . 
For example , scientists help create exhibitions , documentaries , answer journalists ' enquiries and publish on the internet . 
Through initiatives such as the Darwin Centre , and events such as National Science Week researchers interact directly with the public . 
Participate in a live encounter with Museum scientists . 
The specimens are used in a range of different ways ... 
Our libraries are crucial to our research and curation . 
As well as holding current journals containing relevant modern work , they contain a vast historical archive . 
Touch one ... 
Taxonomy requires a great deal of expertise . 
A specimen is useless without information . 
We have a range of ways of collecting all sorts of data ... 
A notebook and a pencil are the most valuable tools . 
Collectors record the behavior of the species in the wild to help understand the specimen back in the laboratory . 
Increasingly researchers are looking at the DNA of organisms to distinguish one species from another . 
Scientists analyze genes by taking a sample of DNA from an organism and sequencing it . 
We can compare these sequences to look at the similarities and differences between species . 
How many different options will there be to test ? 
There are many ways of looking at habitats and specimens , at many different scales . 
Here are a few that we regularly use . 
Science is a powerful technique for understanding the world around us . 
Across all the sciences , there are a few basic principles , which researchers adhere to . 
Then , the scientist will devise a series of experiments to test whether the hypothesis is true or false . 
If it appears true by that experiment , it must be tested against others . 
Lake Baikal , Russia 
Discoveries of new arthropod species in a remote Siberian lake are helping scientists understand how new species come into being . 
Scientists here are discovering how they affect the soil . 
Midges and climate change 
Scientists are tracking climate change through studying tiny corpses of midges found in the bottoms of lakes . 
Barely studied , the deep sea is an alien habitat . 
By classifying the animals that live there , we aim to understand the environmental impacts upon it . 
Lake Baikal has a very complex shape . 
It is also the only freshwater lake known to have underwater ' reefs ' of giant sponges . 
But it is difficult to predict exactly how the climate will change in the future . 
Scientists need to test their climate change models by testing them against how climate has changed in the past . 
So , to test these models we need a way of understanding past climate change . 
Steve Brooks , Entomologist 
The Mahabharata was translated under the patronage of Nusrat Shah . 
In the Deccan states , relations between the Muslim rulers and their Hindu subjects were even more intimate and cordial . 
The founder of the Bahmani kingdom had got his throne through the efforts of his Brahmin friend pangu . 
During the Bahmani period Brahmins and other Hindus generally had a large share in the administration of the state . 
The five Muslim kingdoms which were built on the ruins of the Bahmani Sultanate continued this liberal policy . 
Their kings were patrons of the local languages and some of them were good Marathi and Urdu poets . 
That was why he laid much more emphasis on direct contact with the people than any Muslim king had ever thought of doing . 
Other important traditions of the old Indian state were revived by the Mughal state under Akbar . 
Akbar imposed restrictions on drinking , gambling and prostitution equally on all sections of the people . 
This resulted in the creation of a common culture centred on the court but spread far and wide throughout the Mughal dominions . 
The root of a common culture is always a common language . 
In northern India Persian had been the court language as well as the language of literary expression and conversation among the Muslims . 
Apart from religious schools which were denominational , all secular schools had the same syllabus for all people without distinction of caste or creed . 
The policy of having common schools with a purely secular syllabus was specially designed to create a favourable intellectual atmosphere for national unity . 
This educational policy promoted cultural understanding on a higher level . 
Hindu and Muslim scholars were encouraged to translate standard works from Sanskrit into Persian and to write books on past and contemporary history . 
To take translation first . 
Later , several translations of the Ramayana were made in Persian prose and poetry by Hindus . 
The Mahabharata was translated by a board of Hindu and Muslim scholars of which Mullah Abdul Qadir was a member . 
The great poet Faizi rendered Lilavati , the classical work on mathematics into Persian . 
In Jehangir 's time the Hindu influence seems to have increased . 
On the contrary universal love is essential for attaining peace of mind . 
'' Hatred does not cease by meeting hatred with hatred but by meeting it with love . 
This is its nature . 
If one wants to live a happy life one should not hate one 's enemies . 
Conquer resentment with love , evil with good , greed with generosity , and falsehood with truth ! 
Still , during the first hundred years the number of his followers was very small and was confined to Koshala and Magadha . 
The Persian masters Syed Ali and Abdus Samad initiated their young pupils , mostly Hindus , into the intricacies of Persian drawing and coloring . 
For theoretical education a library was provided which had a collection of books on art and the masterpieces of old artists . 
Akbar himself visited the academy very frequently to see the artists at work . 
Of the products of this school the most famous are Daswant , Farrukh Beg , Basavan and Sanvala . 
They followed the old Indian custom of illustrating secular and not religious books . 
Jehangir was not only a patron of art but was himself an artist and during his time Mughal painting reached its zenith . 
Many orthodox Indians hesitated to send their children to government colleges as they were afraid of undesirable influences on their religious ideas . 
These two institutions were packed to capacity while very few students attended the Oriental colleges . 
But we must make two things clear to avoid any misunderstanding . 
The pivot of social and cultural life used to be the royal court . 
Those who were not absorbed in government service went in for law and in a few cases for other independent professions . 
Similarly , they mistook the healthy individualism of the English for egoism , their rational utilitarianism for love of money . 
The negotiations for peace carried on in the midst of violent clashes in several parts of India naturally failed . 
So the great dream of freedom which India had been dreaming for a long time was at last realised . 
She escaped from her bondage with her life but not limbs intact as she had to lose two of her organic parts . 
A constitution was completed and passed by the Constituent Assembly at the end of 1949 and came into force on January 26 1950 . 
India became a Sovereign Democratic Republic but has maintained an informal connection with the British through the Commonwealth since then . 
Later they were quickened by the reaction against the type of Western culture which had come to India through commercial adventurers . 
Arjuna 's trouble is that his moral duty urges him to act but the consequences of this action seem to be entirely immoral . 
The gist of his argument is that to find the right way to moral action it is essential to base morality on religion . 
Every individual act has to be judged by the standards which religion has laid down . 
The religious ideal according to the Upanishads is the realisation of the unity of Being . 
At this stage the whole nature of one 's action changes . 
This being the character of life , the ultimate life can only be conceived as an ego '' 
It should confine itself only to preventing the productions of art from infringing the civil or common law . 
In a democratic society the function of directing and controlling art can only be entrusted to public opinion . 
However , some measure of state control on cultural life is necessary . 
The state must have the power of making laws for preserving the cultural wealth of the country from damage or destruction . 
This cultural synthesis should start with a national language , for language is the soul of culture . 
Unity in diversity has always been the distinguishing feature of Indian culture . 
We should keep it as our aim in our efforts to build the new national culture . 
But even the semblance of liberal democracy before independence , made necessary some change in the traditional social system . 
There are in our country strong opponents of industrial progress . 
Other countries have faced these problems and succeeded in solving them by prudent planning , social legislation and movement of social welfare and reform . 
As far as the equality of opportunity to pursue higher education is concerned , the position is still more unsatisfactory . 
Obviously children from poor families can only go beyond the primary stage with the help of stipends from the government . 
Yet it seems too much to hope that in future development plans education will be given much more attention than it has so far . 
My early education has given me a taste for science and I try to keep in some kind of vague touch with scientific developments . 
In this letter ; Jawaharlal Nehru refers to his seven terms in prison . 
I used to get The Times Literary Supplement and sometimes the Literary Digest , etc . 
I love winter sports but have no chance in India . 
There was an element of magic about it , an uncritical credulousness , a reliance on the supernatural . 
Science does not tell us much , or for the matter of that anything about the purpose of life . 
The old controversy between science and religion takes a new formthe application of the scientific method to emotional and religious experiences . 
Religion merges into mysticism and metaphysics and philosophy . 
Architecture too had made little progress . 
Each house had , as a rule , a square courtyard surrounded on all sides by rooms with verandas in front . 
The cities were generally planned in the form of a square or a rectangle . 
The main street ran from east to west , side streets from north to south . 
A separate quarter was set apart for each of the various vocational groups . 
Even in cities where bricks were used for building houses , temples were generally made of bamboo . 
The oldest temple which has so far been traced is the Vishnu temple near Chittor . 
Another belonging to the same period has been found in Bes Nagar . 
Something of this kind we see happening now , and behind this war there lies this internal conflict of the spirit of man . 
In the midst of disaster , he has not lost his dignity or his faith in the values he cherished . 
Whatever gods there be , there is something godlike in man , as there is also something of the devil in him . 
The future is dark , uncertain . 
Women had a high status in society but they were not allowed to step outside their prescribed range of duties . 
A brief survey of different cultures shows the general conditions created by the Puranic Hindu religion . 
Though in the Puranic age religion continued to dominate society , the process of differentiation of the various departments of life became more pronounced . 
The progress of science and literature was accelerated by the increasing use of books . 
In north India the barks of some trees and in south India palm leaves of various kinds were used for writing . 
We must have a real league of nations controlling armaments and air services , and collective security based on freedom and social justice . 
I would demand that this government must go . 
It is time that the problem of our independence was faced and settled finally . 
There is no other way of settling this question except by recognition of our right to independence , and through a constituent assembly ... 
Was this freedom and democracy meant for us also , or only for the favored mortals who lived in Europe and its extensions ? 
Did it mean that imperialism would go from here and elsewhere ? 
We inquired from the British Government and asked to be enlightened , so that we might know what course we should pursue . 
Our inquiries were considered irrelevant and impertinent . 
The National Congress had not asked anything for itself . 
In the mind and heart of India there was a conflict . 
In western Europe this conflict had raged hundreds of years ago and resulted in establishing the authority of Parliament . 
Our course was clear . 
But the spirit of revolt led these youths to provoke the pickets and thus walk into the enemy 's trap . 
The I . 
The gulf that separated the people from the armed-forces armed forces has once for all been bridged . 
The people and the soldier have come near each other . 
They have now come to realise that they both have one common aimthe freeing of their country from foreign yoke . 
Neither the Sardar nor the Maulana is in a position to give any guarantee in the present state of our slavery . 
It is the Government alone which can do so . 
But I deprecate the mass violence in Bombay during the past four days . 
In England and America such situations are dealt with differently . 
We should be careful about the unsociakelements which are only too ready to exploit any situation to their advantage . 
You have no right to pull down a foreign flag from a ' private premises . 
But still most of us hesitate , because of our nationalist background , to take a step which might frighten away some vested interests . 
Most of those interests are already ranged against us and we can expect little from them except opposition even in the political struggle . 
The Congress has been in the past a broad front representing various opinions joined together by that common bond . 
It must continue as such even though the difference of those opinions becomes more marked . 
We must not simply think that capitalism has always been bad . 
The problem of production of wealth was solved by capitalism but not the problem of distribution of wealth . 
This is connected with the modern growth of imperialism , with the demands of raw materials and a demand for markets . 
We must understand that imperialism is something vaster and entirely different from England , France or any other country . 
There is English imperialism , French imperialism , Japanese imperialism . 
At first they tried to divide the world . 
Congress parties in the legislatures should also keep in touch with Congress committees and with public opinion generally . 
By this frank approach they will get the friendly cooperation of the public and will be in touch with realities of the situation . 
The masses will thus also be trained and disciplined in the democratic method . 
Only by their own strength can they ultimately progress or resist the inroads that vested interests might make on them . 
The proper organization of the peasants in Congress committees in villages thus becomes essential . 
Some important principles have , however , been laid down in the Karachi resolution and in the election manifesto . 
Agriculture is and will remain the largest single industry of this country , and it is associated with a host of subsidiary industries . 
Agriculture must , therefore , inevitably be considered by this committee in its scheme of national planning . 
But planning , as most of us conceive it , is inevitably connected with a socialist society . 
But India has not accepted this goal , and our immediate objective is political independence . 
We must remember this and not confuse the issue , for else we will have neither socialism nor independence . 
For us the problem is that of India and of India of today and tomorrow . 
But here in India large numbers of people have recognised it , and it has become the solid foundation of our movement . 
Not to do so is to fall between two stools . 
So far as the Congress is concerned there is no such difficulty . 
The Congress has been and is a fighting unit . 
It must remain so if it is to fulfil its historic purpose . 
Platforms can not fight , howsoever joint they might be , nor can debating societies carry on effective struggles . 
That is undesirable and creates barriers between it and large numbers of people in the Congress and the country . 
Today they are not in a position to do so . 
They have neither the national backing nor the discipline for the job . 
The left today can destroy ; it can not build . 
We do not analyze the springs of past greatness or try to find out what qualities we lack which our ancestors possessed . 
The world progresses and advances in knowledge and culture even though there are occasional lapses and retrogression . 
This resolution was most objectionable and I referred to it in my Benares speech . 
As a matter of fact no such resolution had been passed by any organization , and we had been the victims of a hoax . 
My Benares speech , briefly reported , created an uproar . 
Used as I was to such outcries , I was quite taken aback by the vehemence of the attack of the Hindu Mahasabha leaders . 
This article of mine was given great publicity in the Indian Press . 
The Hindu Mahasabha leaders , who had denounced me in the most vigorous and varied language , now remained perfectly silent . 
I did not imagine , of course , that I could conjure away the passions that underlay the communal spirit . 
It was my intention to carry on with this reasoned attack when prison claimed me again . 
Some people , however , seem to imagine that by a frequent repetition of the magic formula , unity will ultimately emerge . 
It is interesting to trace British policy since the Rising of 1857 in its relation to the communal question . 
It is an attempt to prevent the will of the majority from prevailing because the minority might suffer . 
Probably it is not connected with the Hindu Sabha , and it may only be a mushroom growth fathered by our benign government . 
Collective welfare is the key to the attitude taken by the Quran towards political , social as well as other aspects of cultural life . 
We have thus to see how far they so fit in . 
Our great provincial languages are no dialects or vernaculars , as the ignorant sometimes call them . 
The use of any other language will result in isolating the educated few from the masses and in retarding the growth of the people ... 
Our system of education and public work must therefore be based on the provincial languages . 
What are these languages ? 
Hindustani , of course , with its principal aspects of Hindi and Urdu , and its various dialects . 
It is obvious that such a condition of affairs is intolerable for us in India . 
They have troubles of their own ; why add to them ? 
The problem of India is thus of the present , of today . 
There is more resentment and hostility against imperialist domination in India than at any previous time . 
There can be little doubt that the not distant future will see great changes in India , and the approach to freedom . 
Even real political freedom will be out of our reach , much more so radical social changes ... 
You may have grown impatient . 
Nazi Germany and fascist Italy were entirely on the side of the rebels and gave them every help . 
France sympathised with the Spanish Government but dared not help . 
British financiers rejoiced at the victories of the rebels . 
On that issue depends vast and bloody war all over the world . 
The triumph of the rebels means the strangling of France by three fascist countries surrounding her . 
It means that fascism will make a triumphant attempt at world dominion in cooperation with the fascism of Japan . 
We have seen during the past year or more how Britain has indirectly sought to help the rebels in Spain . 
Why is this so ? 
It is clear that if there is war in Europe , it will come through the aggression of Nazi Germany . 
Jawaharlal Nehru went to Europe in 1938 . 
He was in Barcelona , in Spain , for five days and ' watched the bombs fall nightly from the air ' . 
'' Listen ye Bhikshus ! 
That is the low , yain and worthless life of ignorance fit for none but the blind worshipper of the world . 
The pursuit of this path opens the eyes and enlightens the mind . 
Normally war offices do not shout about their latest weapons and indeed try their utmost to keep them secret . 
It is true that probably such an experiment could not have been kept wholly secret . 
But still there was no obvious necessity for deliberate publicity unless some definite objective was being aimed at . 
What could this be ? 
It was a challenge and a threat . 
It was a reminder of the stark reality behind all the talks of the foreign ministers and the U . 
We , therefore , support the United Nations structure which is painfully emerging from its infancy . 
Whatever it may achieve , the mere fact of its taking place is itself of historic signficance . 
Indeed , this occasion is unique in history , for never before has such a gathering met together at any place . 
And because we are participating in this making of history , something of the greatness of historic events comes to us all ... 
We seek no narrow nationalism . 
We of Asia have a special responsibility to the people of Africa . 
This is not a matter of political views or opinions . 
The freedom of the press does not consist in our permitting such things as we like to appear . 
Even a tyrant is agreeable to this type of freedom . 
For it is always a dangerous thing to seek a temporary advantage at the cost of the larger good or of the final objective . 
We live in a jungle where , often enough , predatory individuals and nations roam about at will and seek to injure society . 
There is further information available at local libraries and careers offices . 
UK university degrees are listed at www . 
What is a specimen ? 
What exactly is a specimen ? 
Why do we need them ? 
Nature 's catalogue 
What types of things are our specimens ? 
Where in the world ? 
From where did our specimens originate ? 
What kinds of places are they from ? 
What is a specimen ? 
The label tells us when and where this specimen was collected and who collected it . 
Without this information , the specimen would be a historical artefact , but scientifically it would be useless . 
The name of the specimen is added once it has been identified . 
A colored tag shows that the specimen is the first of its species to be described and named . 
This is called the ' type ' specimen . 
We have over 60 million life science specimens , including over 850COMMA000 types . 
Why do we need specimens ? 
Our life science specimens make up an encyclopaedia of the natural world . 
They are a rich and unique resource for taxonomists and scientists all over the world . 
Scientists have found an incredible abundance of new species in Lake Baikal , Russia . 
Researchers study the appearance , body tissues and DNA of specimens in the collections . 
They are the basis of our many research projects . 
Researchers use the historic termite collection to study termites and soil in tropical rainforests . 
By keeping different kinds and parts of organisms , we maximize our possibilities for research . 
Not everything in our collections was once living . 
Our art collection is the third largest in the UK . 
Diaries , notebooks and scientific papers are key for understanding specimens collected in the past , and how they have been investigated . 
Sometimes , an illustration is the only record we have of a specimen that has been lost or destroyed . 
Specimens in our collections date from the fifteenth century to the present day . 
Virtually all groups of plants and animals , and the natural variations that exist within them , are represented in the Life Science Collections . 
Our zoology collections contain all recent known animal groups , including 95 per cent of all known birds . 
Our insect collection holds half of the one million insect species known today . 
With some of our earliest specimens dating from the late 1400s , the collections here provide insight into the natural world 400 years ago . 
Many of our specimens are from places that would be unrecognisable to their collectors today . 
An average of 160COMMA000 specimens are added every year . 
We aim to database all of our collections . 
This will enable people to easily access information about them . 
It will also tell us exactly how many species we hold . 
How do researchers keep track of the huge number of specimens held in the Museum ? 
Where in the world 
Our active research generates specimens from all over the globe but some regions are better represented in our collections than others . 
Some of the reasons for this are political . 
Explorers in the past have focused collecting in specific areas . 
Some parts of the world have always been easier to access than others . 
One legacy from our political past is that 10 per cent of our collections are from the British Isles and former British Empire . 
Modern politics also play a part in determining which places we collect from . 
For example , ongoing civil war in Sri Lanka means that we have been unable to collect from the northern part of the island . 
Where in the world 
Our research priorities partly dictate where many of our specimens come from today . 
These priorities are determined by the need to research regions under threat , collaborations with other institutions or governments and , ultimately , funding . 
Our collecting is also influenced by the collections we already have . 
Why do we need to do more research on the plants of Central America ? 
One region can be home to several different types of habitat . 
We are trying to study as many of them as we can . 
How do we collect in these diverse habitats ? 
We collect specimens and data in a range of habitats ... 
Ordering the world 
Scientists have classified the living world into six major kingdoms . 
' Species ' is the most specific unit of classification . 
Every known living thing has a general genus name and a more specific species name . 
Often , the Species name is descriptive of the organism 's characteristics , its geographical location or the person who discovered it . 
Why classify the natural world ? 
Why is it necessary to classify living things ? 
Why is the system so strict ? 
A type specimen is the first specimen of its species to be described , and given a species name , in a publication . 
We hold more than 850COMMA000 of them , more than any other museum in the world . 
Types are the foundation of our naming system , the ' dictionary ' of the natural world . 
These unique specimens are the key references by which we describe and name the rest of the natural world . 
Identifying specimens is a large part of Museum research . 
How do curators use type specimens to do this ? 
This subsequently became the type specimen . 
Every known species has been described , named and a type specimen appointed . 
To determine whether you have found an example of a new species , you need many others to compare it to . 
These fish all look slightly different , yet they are classed as the same species . 
Some researchers suggest that because they look so different , they should be separated into different species groups . 
As we learn more about individual organisms , we may discover that we need to subdivide one species still further . 
For example , scientists might split a group of organisms , described previously as one species , into three different species . 
This kind of renaming occurs as a product of new knowledge rather than a desire to regroup the natural world . 
With 60 million life science specimens , how do we keep track of them all ? 
How do we incorporate new additions ? 
We aim to keep our specimens in good condition for hundreds of years . 
How do we prepare fresh material for the long store ? 
How do we make the specimens available to researchers ? 
Access to information 
The national collections here are a library of the natural world . 
Every item in the Museum 's collection is recorded , catalogued and given a number that will become its unique identity tag . 
This bone came to the Museum on 2 November 1949 . 
The last number shows it was the first specimen recorded that day . 
How do Museum researchers find out what a new specimen is ? 
Over the next decade , we will be putting images and information about our 60 million life science specimens onto computer . 
Donations are the main source of new study material for many of our collections . 
In other areas , new specimens are also generated through our active research around the world . 
How do we obtain new specimens from their habitats ? 
What are the ethical considerations when collecting a new specimen from the wild ? 
Touch the images to find out how these specimens got here . 
The Museum is an international resource . 
' I need access to the extensive library which specialises in systematic literature . ' 
' Without the collections , I would have to rely on hearsay and research carried out decades or centuries ago . ' 
Alex Monro , Botany researcher . 
At any one time , around 80COMMA000 specimens can be on loan to experts around the globe , from our beetle collection alone . 
For each group of species , there is a handful of experts . 
In order to identify some of our specimens , we post them to other experts across the world . 
Similarly , outside institutions donate specimens to us in return for their identification . 
The new knowledge we gain from these collaborations increases the intellectual value of our collections . 
Some of a scientist 's time is spent telling others what they have learned . 
Our role is to ensure that our knowledge about the natural world is available to the people who need it . 
We receive enquiries every day from the public , commercial companies , official bodies , other museums and scientific institutions . 
A pioneering collection of mosquito DNA is helping scientists to track down the spread of malaria . 
The rich flora of Central America is under threat . 
The Museum , with local partners , is helping to understand and protect this precious biodiversity . 
A unique lake 
Because of its size and varying depths , it has a huge variety of ecosystems within it . 
Lake Baikal holds over 2COMMA000 species of animals . 
These provide a unique opportunity for researchers to study the processes that lead to the emergence of new species . 
Lake Baikal contains a range of small crustaceans called diacyclops . 
Occasionally Indians also built their houses in this style but the blending of the European and Indian styles had not yet taken place . 
But the real and significant influence on Indian life was exercised by the technical aspect of Western civilisation . 
Towards , the end of this period gaslight , the railways and telegraph were introduced into the country . 
The first railway line was opened between Bombay and Thana in 1853 and between Calcutta and Raniganj in 1855 . 
About 100COMMA000 people of all castes and creeds courted imprisonment , many suffering physical violence at the hands of the police without attempting retaliation . 
Many died in police firings . 
He exhorted the common people and the nobles of the royal court to live a pure austere life in keeping with the Islamic Shariah . 
But the greatest contribution to the movement of religious reform among Sunni Muslims was made by Shah Waliullah and his family . 
Maulana Syed Ahmad and Maulvi Mohammad fell on the battlefield and the ' Islamic State ' came to an end . 
But the purely social and religious reform movement started by Shah Waliullah and his sons had more success . 
Another distinguished pioneer of the freedom movement was Maulana Shibli . 
A few years after the birth of Deobund , another great Muslim reformer Sir Syed Ahmad Khan founded Aligarh College for modern Western education . 
Both institutions aimed at reforming the Muslim community but their concept of reform differed . 
But unfortunately the union between the , two sections of Muslims did not last long . 
But the highest achievement of the Hindu mind in this age shows itself in another philosophy expounded in the Bhagwad Gita . 
The Gita is not a separate book but a part of the epic Mahabharata . 
Arjuna asks himself if it is not a sin to bring destruction on God 's creatures and to slay his own kith and kin . 
Sri Krishna , the incarnation of Vishnu , disguised as Arjuna 's charioteer observes his spiritual predicament and comes to his rescue . 
For seven years he issued a journal , The Arya , in which his autobiography , The Life Divine , appeared serially . 
It was later published as a book in three volumes . 
His commentary on the Bhagwad Gita had been published earlier . 
Sri Aurobindo has exercised a deep influence on educated Hindus . 
His philosophical speculations are too difficult for most laymen , but all . 
He did weld many Muslims and most Hindus into one nation . 
Similarly , linguistic minorities in the areas of regional languages are dissatisfied with the attitude in the respective majorities . 
I know the forces that act and drive and lead to power but it is not that . 
I see you where you are what I am . '' 
Religion is not a departmental affair ; it is neither mere thought nor mere feeling nor mere action . 
Tagore regards the personality of the individual as real from the relative , human point of view but unreal from that of absolute truth . 
The final surrender of the self is the height of bliss . '' 
By drawing closer to the Infinite the finite human being does not lose his individuality . 
On the contrary his individuality becomes more complete , more pronounced . 
Nature is to the Divine Self as character is to the human self . '' 
Its knowledge of the world is not passive but dynamic . 
It is a kind of '' insight ' which is beyond the range of perception . 
In Tagore and Iqbal 's ideas about God , man and the world , are reflected their philosophies of life . 
Now that free India has decided to build a socialist pattern for its industrial society a fundamental change is imperative . 
No doubt this will create many difficulties . 
But with the Buddhist state , at least in Asoka 's time , the case was quite the reverse . 
The raja had come to be regarded as the religious head of the Buddhists . 
The Hindus '' enjoyed complete freedom of faith and worship . 
The change which Buddhism brought about in the social system was that , though caste distinctions did not disappear , they became less important . 
The Buddhist Sangha opened its doors to all castes and thus the religious basis of varnashram was weakened . 
The nobles who belonged to the Kshatriya and the traders who belonged to the Vaishya castes were now regarded . 
As far as the problem of integrated education is concerned , very little thought was given to it immediately after independence . 
It did not help them to grow into integrated people or enable them to rise to their full stature . 
I hold that true education of the intellect can only come through a proper exercise and training of bodily organs , e . 
In other words , an intelligent use of the bodily organs in a child provides the best and quickest way of developing his intellect . 
By spiritual training I mean the education of the heart . 
What is this India , apart from her physical i jjm geographical aspects ? 
Does she represent anything vital now , apart from being the home of a vast number of human beings ? 
How does she fit into the modern world ? 
What was the tremendous faith , I wondered , that had drawn our people for untold generations to this famous river of India ? '' 
These journeys and visits of mine , with the background of my reading , gave me an insight into the past . 
Politics and elections were day to day affairs when we grew excited over trumpery matters . 
I went there with some colleagues and we spent three days in the villages far from the railway and even the pucca road . 
This book was written in jail during June 1934 to February 1935 . 
A new picture of India seemed to rise before me , naked , starving , crushed , and utterly miserable . 
The ends can not be separated from the means . 
Other sentences varying from 6 months to 2 years , sometimes with brief periods outside . 
This added to jail remissions for good conduct amounts to nearly 7 years . 
Yes , I like lettuce salad and good conversation and animals and flowers , and swimming and riding . 
Perhaps one likes most the things one is deprived of . 
My wife sent me a thermos flask filled with iced sherbet and I did enjoy that . 
And yet intense activity in the midst of conflict does give me a sense of inner satisfaction . 
I feel angry when I see cruelty to human beings or animals . 
I suppose I am rather soft that way . 
I suppose that would be a fair definition of some politicians at least . 
About six months ago I wrote an article about myself . 
Jawaharlal Nehru What was my philosophy of life ? 
Some years earlier I would not have been so hesitant . 
But a growing distaste for politics as I saw them seized me and gradually my whole attitude to life seemed to undergo a transformation . 
Evil triumphed often enough but what was far worse was the coarsening and distortion of what had seemed so right . 
Often , as I look at this world , I have a sense of mysteries , of unknown depths . 
If the subjective element is unavoidable and inevitable , it should be conditioned as far as possible by the scientific method . 
Yet there was something more to it than that , certain basic urges which had greater permanence . 
It is true that even rational and scientific thought does not always take us as far as we would like to go . 
I do not yet know the exact nature of the charge against me . 
We were symbols of the people of India . 
But when it came nearer home and threatened the British Empire itself , the clash came and war began . 
Not even peril and disaster have weakened their intention to hold on to their Empire and to enforce their will upon subject peoples . 
In India we have had over a year of war government . 
Recent measures have suppressed completely such limited freedom , as the press possessed , to give facts and opinions . 
I am convinced that the large majority of the people of England are weary of empire , and hunger for a real new order . 
With that we have nothing in common and we shall resist it to the uttermost . 
We have therefore decided to be no parties to this imposed war and to declare this to the world . 
With those who suffer we sympathise deeply and in all sincerity . 
That is our bounden duty . 
I stand before you , Sir , as an individual being tried for certain offences against the state . 
This period marks the beginning of Indian history in the proper sense of the word . 
On this scanty data it is difficult to base anything like a full account of the period , specially to place the facts chronologically . 
Asoka was a Buddhist and a zealous propagator of Buddhism . 
That is the issue before me and that , ultimately , is the issue before you , Sir . 
It has misjudged their present temper and read history in vain . 
I thank you , Sir , for your courtesy . 
Would it be desirable to adjourn the hearing and take up the case after some time in the course of the day ? 
Why this concession ? 
What I wanted to prove has been said in my statement . 
Petty manual tasks in the garden or some craft . 
I could not live up to them and indeed I had no intentions of doing so . 
And so again I retired into my shell and peeped out of it . 
