the area has got the digamber jain temple which houses the birds hospital .
places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include gulmarg in jammu and kashmir , auli in grawhal , kufri and narkanda in himachal pradesh .
young children are taken to the temples and are introduced to the letters of the alphabet in front of saraswati , the goddess of wisdom and learning .
mandi is comparatively hotter than other hill stations of himachal pradesh .
this beacon resonates the image of gustave eiffel 's tower itself as a universal and symbolic landmark .
68 kms from bhopal , sanchi has the distinction of having the finest specimens of almost all buddhist architectural forms , stupa , chaitya , temples and monasteries dating from 3rd century bc .
jaipur is an important centre on indian airlines north india network , and is connected with daily flights from delhi , jodhpur , udaipur , aurangabad and mumbai .
mandi is district made out of two princely states of mandi and suket .
close to hampstead heath stands high gate hill and on top of the hill , the pleasant village of high gate .
more accurate reconstructions may give us an idea about the general layout of the temple .
as a capital town , itanagar is well connected with the rest of the country by road and air communications .
visit to dilwara temples consisting of five jain temples built by beginning of the 11th century onwards with intricate ornamental carvings represent the climax in the art of decoration in stone .
the beautiful sparkling lights of new year 's eve 2000 will be visible all year long .
the horizontal cross section of the pyramid is square at any level , with each side measuring 229 m ( 751 ft ) in length .
kumily is situated on the outskirts of the periyar sanctuary .
image thus , the unwary visitor will find chennai more than just a gateway of south india .
udaipur , the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green aravali range and crystal clear water lake .
the main reason for this is its magnificent palm fringed beaches and renowned travelers scene .
celebrated in august / september , onam is one of the kerala 's most important festivals .
ayodhya during ancient times was known as kaushaldesa .
in nainital district , sat tal , bhim tal , and naukuchiyatal also have water sport & boating facilities .
allahabad fort built by emperor akbar in 1583 a.d. , the fort stands on the banks of the yamuna near the confluence site .
on that day a ray of sunlight passes through an arch between the horns of stone bull that stands outside the temple and lights up the idol inside .
it is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
in the 2nd century , london ( then called londinium ) was controlled by the roman invaders , and a wall was built to protect it .
the weather is the city 's best feature , with pleasant summers and bearable winters .
most of the inexpensive budget accommodation is in taj ganj .
to bring supplies to the top , ropes were slung over posts set in the chinese side of the wall and baskets were hauled up hand over hand .
from the bird species found in the himalayas like pheasants and snow eagles to birds of prey and other avian species found in the plains like peafowl , nightingales , sparrows and owls .
tansen 's tomb is the memorial to the legendary singer who was one of the ' nine jewels ' in court of emperor akbar .
marine drive extends from nariman point to malabar hill past the famous chowpatty beach , and is built on land reclaimed from back bay along the arabian sea .
forts , palaces , museums , old churches , cool backwaters , palm fringed lagoons , beaches and the practicality of a contemporary metro .
the walls of the jain temple are adorned with colorful paintings depicting various incidents in the lives of the 24 tirthankaras of the jain religion .
jag mandir is an island palace located in pichola lake , constructed by maharana karan singh for the hideout of prince khurram .
here , after the battle of trafalgar , the body of admiral sir horatio nelson was laid prior to his state funeral at st paul 's cathedral .
and it was the beauty of the tomb rather than its size that fascinated its visitors for years .
the main attraction of the jain temple is a divine tree called as ' kalptaru ' and the famous carvings and dome add extra charm to the temple .
the curvature of the uprights is mathematically determined to offer the most efficient wind resistance possible .
participants are advised to bring heavy woolen clothing like caps , socks , gloves , mufflers , pullovers , trousers , wind proof jackets , dark glasses , gum / snow boots and a torch for personal use .
by train kumarghat , 140 km away , is the nearest rail station .
the official line , from the head of public information at the palace is that the clock tower is simply called the clock tower .
for instance , the jahangiri palace built by akbar is a good blend of islamic ( persian ) and different local hindu styles .
mount abu is the only hill station of rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the aravalli range .
the ruling military junta assumed wide-ranging powers , its main aim being to eliminate the communist party and other leftist opposition .
it is a matter of pride that this 2000-year-old art of weaving continues , with families passing on their creative skills to younger generations .
` ` because jyotiba was formed by the amalgamation of the jyotis ( souls ) of three gods , brahma , vishnu and shiva who took the form of jyotiba to destroy the evil ratnasur .
those who do will find statues honoring a number of past british prime ministers .
in modern times the people of kashmir have shortened it into ` ` kasheer ` ` in their tongue .
if you are lucky , the time you visit will coincide with some cultural festival or the other being held at the amphitheater , located within the shipagram complex .
perhaps the biggest attraction is the kamakhya temple atop nilachal hill , where the goddess kamakhya is worshipped and which commands a majestic view of the city and the river .
the temple is decorated with paintings depicting incidents from the life of the tirthankaras , the first floor of the temple is particularly dedicated to parasnath .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
this huge fort has huge battlements that surround palaces , massive water tanks and temples .
the other attraction in the wildlife national park is the ruins of ranthambore fort and jogi mahal that date back to the 10th century .
there is a intense competition where the participating hotels lay out a feast showcasing cuisine from all over the world .
occupied for almost 700 years , the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
india offers a wide range of adventure sports for tourists .
christians in mumbai celebrate the birth of jesus christ with great fanfare .
the lake was drained , the land appeared , and the demon was killed .
in the hilly reaches , panthers and leopards have been known to attack people and carry away small children .
the hanuman temple at the top of jakhu hill is the highest point in shimla .
a crafts museum is at pragati maidan grounds. open from 10am-5pm daily .
these temples , dedicated to various jain saints and deities , is an important place of pilgrimage on the jain circuit .
the entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic , precious stones , gold and silver work .
tippu sultan ` ` tiger of karnataka ` ` was killed in 1799 a.d. , and the mysore throne was handed back to the wodeyar 's .
the doorway shows a row of eight buddhas surrounded by female guardians , river gooses , and scrollwork and lotus petals .
madras is also the fountainhead of the theosophical movement which spread worldwide .
it is believed that a casket containing his mortal remains floated and came to rest on a rocky bed in the sea , where devotees constructed the tomb and mosque .
the building is not normally open to the public , which makes it the least interesting of the inns of court .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor , akbar .
it is hard to imagine that lloyd 's began life as a group of businessmen meeting in edward lloyd 's coffee shop back in 1688 .
the official line though , from the head of public information at the palace of westminster , is that it 's just called ' the green .
the work on the line was started in august 1891 by lord wenlock , governor or madras , but the company was liquidated in 1894 .
it might have been introduced as the structure was progressing .
clear skies and low temperatures provide series of uninterrupted sessions .
a two-storied octagonal tower , the musamman burj , is said to be the place from where shah jahan last saw the taj mahal before dying .
at the entrance to the terminus is a large statue of queen victoria , the clock on tower is 3.19m in diameter .
the panhala place has a colorful history and only a guide can give one the proper historical perspective of the fort .
a daily film show is organized in the auditorium of the museum and it is closed on monday .
the dda has also installed some musical fountains at specific locations which are worth visiting .
the artist 's creative instincts have beautifully captured various facets and moods of life in stone .
situated at 1500metres above sea level , kohima is one of the prettiest centers of north east .
khimsar is located on the route between jodhpur and bikaner .
the hawa mahal is one of the most popular monuments that you can visit during your tours to jaipur in rajasthan , india .
moirang town is one of the main seats of early manipuri folk culture with the ancient temple of the pre-hindu deity lord thangjing , situated here .
photography is also strictly forbidden and cameras can not even be taken inside .
one more work of wonder to be seen here is an iron pillar that still remains unrusted .
delhi today is one of the most elegant capitals in the world .
raj mahal , the interior of the palace is painted with boldly colorful murals on a variety of religious themes .
one of the best havelis of jaisalmer , amar sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers .
udaipur as a honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india is a very apt spot as it is also known as the ` ` city of lakes ` ` for the uninitiated wedded ones .
it s always wise to check updated visa requirements prior to travel .
car and bike enthusiasts yearning for more adventure started setting off to cross country expeditions .
its architecture has been certainly strongly influenced by the romans , which suggests it was built around the first century ad .
visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks .
kumarakom slumbers on the banks of the famous vembanad lake .
it was he , who recovered kashmir from utter political and economic disorder .
chennai is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
national championships were instituted and winners became cult figures .
one can reach kumbhalgarh by road from udaipur ( 84km ) and ranakpur which is 18km from kumbhalgarh .
when st paul visited the city , the temple was adorned with golden pillars and silver statuettes , and was decorated with paintings .
however , paraguay has taken a number of steps to overcome its political , economic and geographic situation and is building a more welcoming image .
this divine land is also enriched with natural beauty which makes it a paradise for tourists .
the wars of independence , which expelled the spanish from virtually the entire south american continent , reached peru in the early 1820s .
the weavers of kancheepuram have been famous from ancient times for some of the best woven silk sarees in the world .
during the nine days , the state government arranges music , dance , folk dance , doll shows , wrestling and sports competitions .
the burial chamber and the sarcophagus of white alabaster decorated with gold were located on the podium and surrounded by ionic columns .
the mighty brahmaputra river that has its origins in tibet charts and has its majestic course through this state .
this is the oldest anglican church in asia .
no two travelers will ever see the same icebergs forged in exactly the same form , such is its ephemeral and austere beauty .
the ancient deposits of chhattisgarh and jain religion memorials are found at malhar , sirpur , maheshpur and arang .
the best way to know about the glorious heritagr of new delhi is to know its monuments .
the british established many hill stations in this region to protect themselves from the extreme heat and dust of the northern plains in the summer .
fish and other exotica from the arabian sea dominate the cuisine .
moreorless , it is the religious preferences and the agricultural practices followed by the tribes of arunachal pradesh , which account for the uniqueness of this hill station in india .
temple at somnathpur is well preserved and not to be missed .
a damaged ashokan column is one of the few standing structures among the ruins .
the palace in chail , which is one of the most ebullient of all hill stations in india , is a treat to visit .
pongal was originally a festival for the farming community , but today it has become one of south india s most popular festivals .
jeep safaris are organized in every part of rajasthan , but safaris organized to the bishnoi village near jodhpur have a special attraction for tourists .
trains connect udhagamandalam indirectly to the rest of country .
adjacent rooms contain 17th and 18th century murals illustrating scenes from indian epics like the ramayana and mahabharata .
dachigam was at one time the exclusive hunting preserve of the maharaja of kashmir .
the tropic of cancer runs through the heart of mizoram , and hence , it has a pleasantly temperate climate throughout the year .
udaipur is situated in the southern part of rajasthan and surrounded by the aravalli range .
agra is also well known for petha , dalmoth and gajak .
this massive fort is flanked by tall and huge gateways and watchtowers and makes a great place to visit during your historical tours to jaipur , rajasthan , india .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
it also has an auditorium , which can accommodate 4000 people at a time and is the largest in asia .
the assembly of the tower was a marvel of precision , as all chroniclers of the period agree .
lyon 's range stock exchange , behind clive street , is worth a visit for a glimpse of the frenzied dealing in shares , periodically erupting onto the street .
most of these smaller roads , especially those that run parallel to the coast , qualify as scenic drives because of the terrain that they traverse .
the surrounding area will also be revitalized and it is hoped that a new rail link to the area will also be created .
jodhpur , called the land of the dead , was founded by rao jodha , the chief of a clan known as the rathores in 1459 .
now , chail could measure up to a much larger shimla , the summer capital of the british empire , and another hill station in india .
some of the palaces were decorated with painted murals which represent the finest flowering of the bundela school of painting .
the ancient city of ephesus nears the modern town of selcuk , about 50 km south of izmir ( smyrna ) in turkey .
ludhiana is another prominent industrial city of punjab known for its hosiery and woollen garments sold in prestigious shopping stores all over the world .
the city of shahjahanabad was the capital of shah jahan but little remains of that old city .
ancient archaeological remains and nazca lines augment peru 's sense of mystery , of possessing an awesomeness of both humankind and nature .
instead he made them a feature of the building by putting them on the outside .
the beautiful verdant land surrounded by lust green hills beckons you with its rolling meadows , terraced gardens , cottages in native style and river sakartod flowing past it .
the mysore palace is also thrown open to the visitors and the royal throne is displayed .
if you ' re an old agra hand of course , you ' ll be quite at home in this crazy bustling town .
bhubaneswar is the nearest railhead , at a distance of 65kms and these two stations are connected to all the major cities in india through long-distance trains .
its designer sir giles gilbert scott also designed the famous anglican cathedral in liverpool .
wenlock downs is about 8km. from ooty on the gudalur road .
flooding of water created shallow wetland ecosystem causing bharatpur bird sanctuary to be perfect habitat for an astounding variety of birds .
ajmer sharief is famous for the tomb of hazrat moinuddin chishti , the saint who founded the sufi order .
the unique characteristic of india is its unity in diversity although there are many cultures and religions and languages .
in fact , the most magical way to explore the sands of rajasthan , especially the unending sand dunes of jaisalmer and bikaner , is on camel back .
he is undoubtedly the samudra gupta of kashmir .
opposite ' the house ' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians .
the king 's chamber is located at the heart of the pyramid , only accessible through the great gallery and an ascending corridor .
however , it is also famous for the agra fort , which is a veritable treasure trove of the mughal architectural tradition .
purwar museum , wonderful personal collection is housed in a lovely haveli and is the work of a retired doctor mr. purwar .
mysore is synonymous with dasara celebrations .
the main states of southern india are tamilnadu , kerala , maharashtra , andhrapradesh and karnataka .
itanagar is situated at the foothills .
the daria daulat , tipu s summer palace with a beautifully gilded and painted interior and the majestic gumbaz his mausoleum , are located close to the river .
the main rivers that flow through nagaland are dhansiri , doyang , dikhu and jhanji .
the meeting point is known as triveni and is especially sacred to hindus .
the paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of the buddha and various buddhist divinities .
little wonder , then , that its environment is so rich .
the other version is that shiva ( the hindu god of destruction ) along with a crore of gods and goddesses were on a pilgrimage .
langthabal offers a view of the manipur university .
the sariska park is home to numerous carnivores including leopard , wild dog , jungle cat , hyena , jackal , and tiger .
there must be hope that the political climate becomes just as clement very soon .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river run in the world .
parasailing is a sport , which is a combination of skydiving and para gliding both being high on adrenaline sports , rolled in to one .
he would quickly corner huge tracts of land , many times more than the other entire european settler put together .
indian narian kartikeyan has already made a name for himself in the high speed world of motor racing .
the story of taj mahal is inseparable from the life of mumtaz who was the chief queen of sahajahan .
the fortress is built on a granite hill 120 meters high and its gates are studded with menacing iron spikes , intended to discourage elephants from battering them down .
at the city 's stock exchange , millionaires and paupers are made overnight and the sidewalks are crowded with vendors hawking everything from ballpoint pens to second hand mixies .
today the fort is open for the public but only limited area can be accessed , more than half of the fort area has been taken over by the army .
you may even hire 4wds but buses are definitely safer because they move with armed escorts .
rock climbing is largely balanced and not strength .
singing boatmen will row you across the lake to the palace , which is a fairy tale delight in striking white and red .
its effect was a burst of almost ethereal clarity , of the kind only metal creates , piercing the architectural landscape of paris .
orchha was the capital of the bundela rajputs between 1531 and 1783 .
ashoka founded the old city of srinagar called now as pandrethan ` ` , ( puranadhisthan ) and also build many vihars and temples and repaired the old shrine .
the territory was then declared the colony of british guiana , a status which it retained until independence in 1996 .
kalindikhal trek starts at nandanvan and ends at badrinath .
the colonial cantonment area to the north is a neatly laid out grid plan of avenues and bungalows along with churches and important educational institutions .
the boat race is held in mid january for tourists , while the real competition is scheduled for the second saturday of august , every year .
the best time to visit ahmedabad is between october and march .
no pilgrimage to mathura is complete without a visit to its kunds .
the city includes other fascinating monuments and structures , such as urn tomb and the royal tombs , the colonnade street , the temples of dushara and al-uzza , and the high place of sacrifice .
sir mirza ismail ( dewan from 1926 to 1941 ) , a great aesthete himself , did much to enhance the city 's aesthetics .
the trekker in the process , also , gets an exposure to the intriguing socio cultural life of the people living in the chaudans , byans , and darma valleys .
bolghatty palace , situated on the palm-fringed bolghatty island , amidst 15 acres of lush green lawns , was built by the dutch in 1744 .
in the subsequent years of struggle for independence from colonial rule allahabad became one of the focal points of the freedom fighters .
the increasing amount of visitors during the late fifties led to the installation of large capacity machinery in the north pier in 1965 .
himachal pradesh was made a centrally administered territory in 1948 with the integration of 31 hill states and obtained additional regions in 1966 .
the mehrangarh fort is located at a distance of almost 5 kilometers from the main jodhpur city in rajasthan , india .
the port blair is the landing and departure point for boat excursions in the andamans , is an ideal base for touring the archipelago of 321 islands .
andhra pradesh has given the world a number of forms of performing arts , handlooms and curios .
surrounding the streets of fine shops are quiet roads containing some of the most expensive real estate in the world .
the ettumanoor shiva temple 12 km north of town has exceptionally beautiful wall paintings and sculptures inside the temple .
however , some argue that antarctica is changing , and by human made causes rather than natural ones .
its rich flora , diversity of demography and biodiversity makes it one of the most poetically pleasing hill stations in india .
cities of andhra pradesh have interesting examples of european architecture as well as domestic vernacular architecture .
in spite of being seedy , grubby and altogether unattractive , camden town still manages to draw heaps of visitors keen to sample its vibrant market and underground music scene .
in sree chitra art gallery there is also a fabulous collection of oriental art from the far east and bali .
tamdil is a natural lake amidst virgin forests of saitaui village with boating facilities to add to its appeal .
it may be surprising to know that they might have never existed except in the minds of greek poets and historians .
a second theory suggests that the blocks were placed using long levers with a short angled foot .
jain temples are situated inside the fort of kanali on the hills overlooking the betwa .
the lowlands , found further to east , are home to some of the nation 's most beautiful and important rivers : the putumayo , the napo , and the pastaza .
the indian map as it exists today came into being only in the post-1945 period .
look up north and you will see a mighty nation , whose feet are washed by three oceans .
this old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
it was raja wodeyar who , in 1610 , set up headquarters at srirangapatna after asserting his independence from the vijayanagar viceroy .
kufri is a small hill station near shimla .
one of the legacies left behind by the british much like cricket and hockey is polo .
the victoria falls offer an inescapable closeness to the natural elements .
the guildhall is the city of london 's civic headquarters .
the prayag sangeet samiti organizes dance and music evenings in the city .
not only in ancient times or the mediaeval period , delhi has been the center of any activity at all times .
cochin is the commercial capital of kerala , and is sometimes referred to as the queen of the arabian sea .
the crowning ceremony of ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the fourth ` ` also took place here in 1902 .
the avalanche valley is a nice place for splendid walks and fishing and it is around 24km. from ooty town .
its excellent workmanship and grand scale make it truly outstanding .
agra fort is located on the banks of the yamuna near the railway station .
antarctica is welcoming more tourist-orientated cruises and ferries to the region every year , and facilities are continually developing , with more accommodation , culinary and travel options available .
this peculiar hill resort bejeweled by the city center nakki lake , is one place amongst the hill stations in india which has a lot of legend attached to it .
king 's road is the main shopping area and provides a wealth of opportunity for the keen shopper .
after his death the house was converted into a memorial .
a keenly contested event , this rally is an inimitable display of well maintained cars of yesteryears .
international foreign exchange providers have several branches in the city .
at the same time , marylebone houses trendy boutiques and some fine restaurants making the place particularly alluring .
it was named after its patron goddess shyamla devi , an incarnation of the goddesses kali .
regular bus services connect chandigarh with amritsar , delhi , dharamshala , kulu , manali , nangal , pathankot and shimla .
a kilometer away from itmad-ud-daulah is chini ka rauza , the mausoleum of afzal khan , and the son of mirza ghiyath begh .
in mandi there are a couple of lakes to be visited .
this historical monument is situated atop a hill that is about 150 meters high and during your tours to this part of rajasthan you could trek up to the fort .
bangalore is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
the history of elephanta is the hoary mists of time .
the park lies 160 km ( 100 miles ) southeast of jabalpur in the state of madhya pradesh .
interstate bus services linking ahmedabad to other cities in the state and beyond are regular and efficient .
eventually it was bought by an entrepreneur who planned to gut the inside of the building and turn it into a giant theme park type amusement complex .
the astonishing part of these observatories is that they can calculate many astronomical movements very accurately .
the shrine is crowded throughout the year and the best time to visit is in the afternoon when the crowd thins out .
the architecture of the buildings of chamba reflects the aura of its former rulers .
mysore was the political capital of the wodeyar dynasty which ruled the state of karnataka for some 150 years till the independence of the country from the british .
during the first world war , it was used as a hospital .
it is less dangerous than the old spiral staircase , and would serve as an emergency staircase to evacuate the public , should the need arise .
the hill station is well known for its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery .
though very old ( the gateway leading from chancery lane dates back to the 1500 's ) , lincoln 's inn is still very much in use today by the legal profession .
visitors may fix an appointment with the concerned authorities prior to the visit .
one of the temple 's outer walls carries an exquisite carving of sri krishna playing his flute , and within , there is a fine statue of lord ganesha .
in allahabad the british formally transferred the governance of india from the east india company to the crown .
the fifth largest state of india , andhra pradesh is irrigated by the mighty krishna and the godavari rivers and is aptly termed as the ' rice granary of india .
the hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from jain mythology .
constructed by sultan qutub-ud-din , kankaria lake is a popular recreational spot for people of ahmedabad .
if constructed under such circumstances , a large land area would be flooded .
among its much architectural games are the places for his queens jodha bai , mariyam and his turkish sultana , built in varying styles , each perfect in it .
kullu is famous for its apple orchards , wooden temples , folk music and dances and their handsome hill folk .
each sector of the city is designed with its own shops , academic , and health care buildings , and places of worship , open spaces , greenery and the residential areas .
in 1859 , egyptian workers started working on the construction of the canal in conditions described by historians as slave labour , and the project was completed around 1867 .
monsoons should be avoided climbing is relatively safe , but that shouldn t stop all climbers from taking precautions .
white churches dot the landscape leaving no doubt that the city is devoutly christian .
meghalaya is divided into five administrative districts of the jaintia hills , east and west garo hills and east and west khasi hills .
the shreyas folk museum displays some of the finest examples of the traditional arts & crafts of gujarat .
the revenue from the canal , he argued , would help finance the high dam project .
jantar mantar , the unique observatory was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
throughout the centuries , armies were garrisoned along the length of the wall to provide early warning of invasion and a first line of defense .
though agra is more famous world over as the city of taj , agra fort is another dimension to the city that attracts tourists in hordes .
it bears the name of the 85 , 000 indian army soldiers who died in the campaigns of ww1 , the north-west frontiers operations and the 1919 afghan fiasco .
it was built in honor of the greek goddess of hunting , wild nature , and fertility .
today sections of this city wall are still visible , mingling among the office blocks .
the ' war on drugs ' has long dominated relations between peru and the usa .
sanganer is known for its jain temples and carvings , besides being famous for its hand made paper and block-printed fabrics .
the chenna kesava temple of belur built 900 years ago is an exquisite example of hoysala art .
in fact , he undertook conquest of many countries solely for the purpose of stopping animal slaughter .
the thar or the great indian desert , as it is generally known , is a fascinating area .
mysore in spite of being ruled by different rulers and kingdoms for ages still retains its old charm and stately beauty .
ayodhya is situated on the right bank of the river ghagra or saryu , as it is called within sacred precincts .
as the demand for agricultural and horticultural crops is bound to increase in the years to come , steps should be taken to rejuvenate agriculture and horticulture .
it is amazing that these blocks have simply been fitted together since at the time of being built , there was no mortar .
agra is famous for handicrafts products such as inlay work on marvel , leatherwork , footwear , and brass wear , carpets , jewelry , zari and embroidery work .
the lighthouse continues to be mentioned in their writings and travelers accounts .
bangalore has seen a major technology boom and is now home to more than 250 high-tech companies , including homegrown giants like wipro and infosys .
netaji subhash road is the centre of the onetime english commercial houses which today flourish in indian hands .
believable , considering that thiruvananthapuram remains one of the biggest centres for sea-bound harbour .
natural attractions are being promoted with increased local participation and encouragement to herbal gardens and natural health resorts .
we know , for instance , that he was extremely well disposed towards the tribal population an attitude that brought him into conflict with senior government officials .
agra is mentioned in the ancient epic mahabharata as agrabana , the sister city of the more prominent mathura .
at its centre is the statue commonly known as eros but which is actually called the angel of christian charity .
1575 ad emperor akbar founded the city in by the name of illahabas which has now become allahabad meant .
the marwar is the main festival which takes place in the month october .
nimaj also covers a unique art gallery showcasing some masterpieces of sculptural art , adorned within natural surroundings so as to provide an authentic ambience .
the most celebrated temples of osian are the surya or sun temple and the sachiya mata temple .
away from hustle and bustle chail is quite peaceful and comfortable place to visit .
it was the centre of most powerful buddhist sect of northern india known as 'sarvastivada ' .
contact the conservator of forests in agartala for booking accommodation in the forest bungalow here , which has well kept gardens and provides reasonably good food .
every year the grounds of the hospital open to the public for the world famous chelsea flower show n one of london 's great social events .
made of local golden-yellow sandstone and wood , some of the havelis are still in excellent condition .
the beautiful marble tomb of sheikh salim chishti still attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint .
the eighteenth century novelist henry fielding lived in one of the houses overlooking the pond and handel is known to have composed in the area .
this place is particularly popular among the children .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
from the tumultuous sea of puri and konark , rath yatra at puri the pilgrims wend their way to the jagannath temple and the exquisite sun temple .
it was agra that babar , the founder of the dynasty , had the first formal persian garden laid out on the banks of the river yamuna .
if you can imagine an indian version of las vegas and disney world rolled into one , this would probably be mount abu .
traverse the lonely stretches of the that desert , like the travelers of old .
while talking of dalhousie one must not fail to mention khajiar which is a big hit with the tourists in himachal pradesh as a popular hill station in india .
historically , the gateway holds greater sigbnificance as the last of the british troops left independent india by sea , marched through its portals .
this famous historical monument is in ruins but still warrants a visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region .
the usa is a huge country to explore , with 50 states to choose from , flanked by two oceans and covering an incredibly varied terrain .
the discovery of oil and the sharp increase in world oil prices in the late and mid 70s should have transformed ecuador 's economic fortunes .
olympia was further struck by earthquakes , landslides and floods , and the temple was damaged by fire in the fifth century ad .
ooty is a land of picturesque picnic spots .
on the left wall is a fragment of a painting showing the buddha preaching to the congregation .
the new docklands is a fine example of this ability .
these divide the state into five river valleys ; the kameng , the subansiri , the siang , the lohit and the tirap .
agartala agartala , the capital city of tripura , lies barely 2 km from the bangladesh border and 3 hours by road from dacca .
shravanabelagola is a famous jain pilgrimage with a 17m high monolith of lord bahubali standing tall .
to watch migratory birds , november to february is the best time .
kumily , the nearest town from periyar national park is well served by both state and private buses from kottayam , ernakulam and madurai in tamil nadu .
the governor of tripura now lives in a palace that was built in 1917 and named ` ` by birendra krishna manikya , a km away from the ujjayanta palace .
there are daily film shows which are screened in a specially designed auditorium .
the imposing red gothic structure within this park is seshadri iyer memorial hall , which houses the public library .
the mughal garden is located in the premises of the president house but this garden is not opened to public viewing .
honeymooners in india can very well afford to explore this second and lesser-explored facet of goan beauty for a honeymoon in goa as a honeymoon destination in india .
the bull temple is believed to have been constructed in the 16th century ad .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
strangely , the hall tends to be ignored , except for on state occasions .
when not away , the queen and prince philip spend most weekends at windsor castle , where they enjoy horse riding .
museums , theatres , exhibitions , shows , popular feasts .
lining the east of the city is the famous marina beach .
the british sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country .
the renowned jagannath temple built in the 15th century ad and crowned with vishnu 's wheel and flag dominate the landscape at puri .
the enchanting hawa mahal is a multi-layered palace , with a profusion of windows and stone screens .
shah jahan made alterations by pulling down many of the original buildings and replacing them with marble ones .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar minaret stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
the first phase of the ride is easy , through thick peripheral reserve forests of sal .
on the right wall of the shrine are painted the seven manushi buddhas with maitreya , under their respective boddhi trees .
karnataka has its famed temple sites like belur , halebid , aihole , badami and hampi .
the ganges river , which forms the backbone of uttar pradesh , is the holy river of hinduism and there are several important pilgrimage towns along it .
both towns are famous for their delicious chikki ( molasses candy ) and chocolate fudge .
taj mahal architecture has an impressive watercourse , which neatly divides the garden into four equal parts and heightens the flawless symmetry of the entire complex .
kerala is closer to public conscience as a land of sleepy backwaters and sunlit horizons with boats fading out in the distance to quarters accessible only to the famed boatmen .
pathiramanal ( sands of midnight ) , an enchanting island on the lake , can be accessed by boat from kumarakom .
a mini garden with an amusement part for children and a toy train are added attractions at ooty lake .
constructed in honey-colored basalt , the gateway was designed by george wittet , inspired by 16th century gujarat style .
skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience , which does not require special gear like other sports of the same genre .
the santhome cathedral was built by the portuguese between the 14th and the 15 century ad and derived its name after st. thomas .
many of the churches in the city are known as ' guild churches ' to some of the city 's livery companies , ancient institutions which .
this beautiful building is 245 ft in length and 156 ft in width .
in kumarakom the monsoon are early june to mid august , november to march considered the best months .
the company had by this time mastered perfectly the principle of building bridge supports .
after 16thcenturies later , bangalore became an important fortress city under rulers hyder ali and tipu sultan .
jaipur is also famous for marble statues , blue pottery and the rajasthani shoes .
on top of a hill in sndar nagar and visited by thousands of devotees every year , are the sukhdev vatika and temple of mahamaya .
it is one of the world 's economic giants and is revered for its football prowess , coffee production and distinctive music such as samba and bossa nova .
specialist equipment such as ropes is often used to protect climbers from falls .
on 27 august 1883 , the indonesian island of rakata almost vanished .
situated about 30 km from the city , the zoological park is spread over an area of 510 hectares .
all east bound traffic coming from the north has to pass allahabad .
however , the greek historian strabo had stated that the gardens were situated by the river euphrates .
brindavan gardens is the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors .
economy besides tourism , agra has also grown into an important centre for handicrafts and small industries .
many buddhist scholars , missionaries , and intellectuals permanently settled in the valley .
patwon ki haveli is one of the largest and most elaborate havelis in jaisalmer , it is five stories high and extensively carved .
children book trust of india is in the same building .
the vibrant and fun filled marwar festival is held annually and is a celebration that brings to life the essence of all that rajasthan stands for .
the coastal water surrounding the islands andamans and lakshadweep is the abode of one of the richest coral reef ecosystem in the world .
the gurudwara has been extended from time to time and it tough to tell apart the original structure anymore .
bangalore is generally regarded as a place that most visitors like to chill out in .
since the nineteenth century , archeological excavations have been undertaken at the mausoleum site .
offer the rare opportunity to see the wild buffalo , gaur , tiger , and leopard , singing maina and wide variety of antelopes in sylvan surroundings .
there is a priceless art collection among other exhibits and the palace also hosts an annual classical music festival between 27th january and 3rd february .
visakapattinam in andhra pradesh is also a good city having one of the biggest harbors of india carrying out large exports and imports .
one of the major attention grabber after the bharatpur sanctuary is government museum of bharatpur , which provides a glimpse of the past royal splendour of bharatpur .
bunches of dry palm fronds , ( chootu ) are lit and carried in procession around the temple before the performances .
eiffel built hundreds of metal structures of all kinds all around the world .
unlike any other city , the jaisalmer desert fortress is one of rajasthan 's most exotic and unusual towns .
versed in many languages , a good poet , lover of music and art , he started his rule in a remarkable way , and became famous in northern india .
dhruva teela , this marks the place where the child dhruva meditated single mindedly as he stood on one leg .
a nearby snowline with numerous streams and cool healthy atmosphere makes the surroundings very attractive .
the railfall of arunachal pradesh is amongst the heaviest in the country .
it is a land of lush green forests , deep river valleys and beautiful plateaus .
london 's largest coach station is here as well as victoria train station which has a link to gatwick airport .
other than the monsoon between may and october , which are long and heavy , summer temperature goes up to 32 c while winters are a pleasant 29 c .
occupied for almost 700 years the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
legend says the town was settled by descendants of the pandavas who fled the flooded city of hastinapur .
shimla is a popular city with tourists .
after the power station closed down , a number of suggestions were put forward for its feature .
bangaram island situated in the bay of bengal , the andaman and nicobar islands are still largely undiscovered by mass tourism .
a beautiful garden , the nehru park , lies close to the bharatpur museum .
sariska national park s dense forests make its terrain an ideal one for the tiger , leopard , porcupine , chowsingha , rhesus and langur .
a white marble building with intricately carved lattice screens and engravings in mother of pearl , lapis lazuli and topaz .
the town is also well equipped with the excellent hotels and resorts for accommodation .
near kalbadevi are the jama masjid and the mumbadevi temple , dedicated to the patron goddess of mumbai 's original inhabitants .
the gajner wildlife sanctuary is 32 kms away from the bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds .
mysore is just 139 kms by road from bangalore .
mumbai 's international airport is at sahar ( 30 kms ) & domestic airport is at santacruz ( 26 kms .
history is alive and throbbing in delhi , the capital of india .
wherever you ' re going in the barbican , the best plan is to enter the centre by the nearest entrance .
the bikaner city is bolstered by imposing walls and has a 16th century fort housing old palaces , temples and a mosque .
you can also see ashes from roman london , which was burnt down in ad 61 by boudicca .
now this palace is a five star hotel and attracts vips and tourists from foreign countries and rich people .
india 's first vacation train , palace on wheels started its royal journey in the year 1982 with the collective efforts of indian railway and rajasthan tourism development corporation .
seasonal skiers have clean stretches of absolutely virgin slopes to sport on .
the beauty of this art in fact enhances the purity of temple art forms .
although bolivia is landlocked , it never feels claustrophobic blessed with breathtaking lakes and lofty mountains .
it measures 4.57 meters in height and 6.10 meters in length .
adjacent to the snake park is a children 's park which has a large playing ground and collection of birds and animals .
you may not find international chains and super deluxe hotels , but some of the new ones have pretty good facilities and are of a fairly high standard .
the indian subcontinent perhaps had the largest network of rivers in the world .
the dewan-i-khas or the qutab minar place for special hearing was the area where the emperor used to hold meetings with his ministers .
honeymoon hotels in chennai are replete with all the variety that a bustling metro pole can account for , for the benefit of honeymooners in india .
as in many parts of london , there are many fine white stucco fronted victorian houses and beautiful private squares .
the 20 , 000 flashes will also sound the gong at noon with a ten minute display of diamond sparkles .
there is also the great indian bustard 's breeding site and exotic wildlife , where you can see the indian gazel , chinkara , eagles and many such birds and animals .
the rich bird life at the periyar national park includes the giant hornbill , cormorant , darter , osprey and racket-tailed drongo .
views on the new docklands in architectural terms may vary but it is beyond dispute that an exciting new area for living and working in has been created .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
in order to make the project more acceptable to public opinion , nouguier and koechlin commissioned the architect stephen sauvestre to work on the project 's appearance .
regular bus services connect bhopal with sanchi , indore , ujjain , mandu and pachmarhi .
gujarat is an important centre of industry and commerce in the country .
erected in memory of the poet saint thiruvalluvar , the shrine at nungambakkam is constructed after the temple car of thiruvarur .
this is supposed to be the second longest beach in the world and runs to a length of 12 km .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
india , a place of infinite variety , is fascinating with its ancient and complex culture .
mumbai is a cluster of seven islands .
however , the territory was largely neglected by paris and continued to deteriorate until civil unrest broke out in the 1970s .
goa is a premier beach vacation desination .
the palace is also the administrative headquarters of the monarchy .
bodies of all ages , colors and sizes don the very minimum in beachwear and idle away the days on the sun-kissed copacabana and ipanema beaches .
the jakhu temple is one of the most favoured spots for tourists apart from pilgrims .
next to dewan-i-khas are the royal baths or the hammams and shahi burj which are closed for public viewing .
the term dera refers to ` ` camp ` ` and dun points to ` ` a valley .
lal bagh also houses the offices of the karnataka horticultural society that renders free advice to those interested in flowers and gardens .
two octagonal towers with their spiraled holding at their pinnacles two carved figures of justice and mercy are situated to the west of the central tower .
this court is generally used for the most serious of cases .
located at a distance of 16 km from jaisalmer , lodurva was ancient capital of jaisalmer .
during the persian invasion of egypt , king darius i ordered the canal completed .
mumtaz was very compassionate , generous and demure .
this fort , now in ruins , was the seat for administration for many emperors .
the great wall started as earth works thrown up for protection by different states .
the former was a pious and a strong ruler with buddhist leanings .
between june and august the temperature may go up to 40-42 degree celsius .
the british called shimla the ` ` queen of hill stations ` ` situated in the north-west himalaya .
the centerpiece of this hall is the carved throne pillar , which supports a circular platform connected to the edges by four bridges .
robert delaunay gave it cubist facets in a whole series of canvases started in 1910 .
with a terrain that shifts from hill roads to forest tracks , desert trails to beach routes , india tests the mettle of both man and machine in motor rallies .
a massive structure in the shape of a four sided fort with circular bastions at each corner houses a temple of hanuman and is the most popular shrine in ayodhya .
under the canopy of the blue sky , set in the rolling green turf is a small but picturesque lake , with the added attraction of a floating island .
the scenic beauty of andaman & nicobar islands would create a sense of dissatisfaction and the human mind would rebel against the whole mass of the motley facts of life .
next to the magnificent task of laying the road to ooty , the british took up , around 1880 , the stupendous task of connecting mettupalayam to ooty by rail .
splendidly chic boutiques , exquisite antiques shops and hundreds of charming eighteenth and nineteenth century houses make chelsea one of the most desirable areas in london .
mysore is the cultural capital of karnataka .
barnes high street leads from the pond to the river thames and is filled with small grocers , green grocers , bakers and butchers .
vrindavan seems perpetually to be dreaming and imaginatively reliving its romantic past .
suitable in all weather as the boat has both covered and sun deck seating .
the entire building , when floodlight on sunday evenings , presents a truly breathtaking picture .
the best preserved of these stone temples are at martand and avantipur .
the bangalore aquarium is the second largest in the country .
the rhino emerges as if from prehistory and treads the kaziranga national park .
49 kms from bangalore city , ramanagaram is famous for its rock formations , a great attraction for rock climbers .
the park has 35 species including the wild elephant , tiger , panther , wild dog , gour , samber , giant squirrel , lion-tailed macaque , civet , leopard , nilgiri tahr and nilgiri langur etc .
this is the oldest accurate information available regarding the mysore palace .
carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers if you are staying in a hotel to maintain your own standards of cleanliness .
the cave temples and monasteries at ellora , excavated out of the vertical face of an escarpment are 26 kms north of aurangabad .
the bharat milap temple is located in kamadgiri .
spanning more than 2000 km along the northeastern coast of australia , the great barrier reef is home to thousands of species of plants and animals .
for more information on these islands , contact a us embassy ; see usa section .
there are many other notable residents in the cemetery including george elliot , the british novelist and michael faraday .
by building small dykes and dams and diverting water from an irrigation canal , he converted this low lying area into a fine wild fowl shooting preserve .
the hospitable and unselfish native tribal has their own customs , dances and rituals here which are quite fascinating .
teen darwaja s triple-arched gateway was originally meant to serve as the royal entrance to the maidan shahi or royal square .
the rig veda mentions about dasyus and nishads living in this region and their powerful king shambra who had 99 forts .
sas bahu ka mandir and teli ka mandir , two graceful temples dedicated to lord vishnu , built in a unique blend of architectural styles .
the wildlife sanctuaries and the national parks here give you an essence of the same .
dharamsala has risen to international repute as ` ` the little lhasa in india .
from manak chowk , one can walk into the lanes where the famous carved havelies are to be found .
when krakatau erupted again in 1883 , the island virtually collapsed into its cavity , 300 m below sea level .
a wonderful activity on an open landscape of thar desert , jeep safari offers an excellent opportunity to explore the beautiful , calm and colorful land of rajasthan .
the ascent of the uppermost terrace-roofs is made by a stairway .
the tourist has a vast expanse of meadows and grassy knolls to look forward to in this enchanting hill station in india , himachal pradesh .
common & most popular motorbike safari circuits are in north combining rajasthan , madhya pradesh , uttar pradesh south combining , tamil nadu , kerala , & karnataka .
mumbai was the dowry of portuguese princess infanta catherine de braganza who married charles ii of england in 1661 .
after the death of ashoka , his son jaluka ascended the throne of kashmir , and the latter was succeeded by his son king damodar ii .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam , the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
this temple was built by rani rashmoni in 1847 .
camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to himachal and sharing the warmth of its people .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
it had two thrones on the terrace , one in white marble and one in black slate .
a pretty hill town , coonoor is located amidst tea gardens .
in the beautiful lake district of nainital , facilities of boating through yachts , paddleboats and traditional rowing boats are available .
dalhousie is spread over five hills and is different from other hill stations .
the tomb was designed by noor jahan and was the first mughal building using marble inlay work .
allahabad is also known for its annual magh mela ( mini kumbh mela ) and colorful dussehra festival .
in taj mahal trees were planted carefully in accordance with the symmetry of the overall plan .
it is this size impression that made the statue so wonderful .
allow for time to enjoy the panoramic and magnificent sites of the awesome mountains , rivers , flora and fauna .
rainwear is a must if you are visiting between june and september .
imphal is connected by a network of roads with all the important cities of north eastern india .
these were tens of life-size as well as under and over life-size free-standing statues of people , lions , horses , and other animals .
sangam offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset .
ahmedabad is also connected by national and state highways to major cities in india .
he made elaborate studies on architecture that had to be applied for the new palace by visiting delhi , madras and calcutta and made plans for the new palace .
a bus or car ride from bangalore would take approximately 3 hours for mysore .
the arcade leads to the naubat khana or the drum house where the musicians used to play drums on the arrival of emperors or princes .
prayag is one of the historic & mythological cities of india with glorious past and present .
this includes scaling , skiing , and trekking , through a landscape teeming with exotic flora and fauna , lakes and meadows , full of fresh snow .
the state bank of india will change your money and encash travelers cheques .
srirangapatna s fort bears witness to the tiger of mysore 's last battle against the british .
sansad bhawan or the parliament house is the supreme law making body in the country .
he was a great conqueror who extended the boundaries of the state in all directions .
with their slant mongol eyes , prominent cheek bones and cheerful smiles , the people of the lahaul give visitors an enthusiastic welcome .
no yellow topped taxis run in ahmedabad , only private tourist taxis or the auto rickshaws whose fare has to be negotiated before boarding .
the next stop is mattan temple , a small lingam ( shiva symbol ) stands in the sparkling spring. also visit achbal gardens .
at the periyar sanctuary you can find reptiles like king cobra , viper , krait , a number of non-pisonous snakes , biocoloured frogs , tortoise and crocodiles .
the igua falls are located in the igua national park , at the border of brazil and argentina .
with the spurt in tea prices in the world market in the 80 's , tea has usurped the place of potato .
grishneshwar mandir , rani ahilyabai holkar is said to have built this shiva temple in the 18th century in small village of grishneshwar , which lies west of the caves .
this shopping arcade was known as the mina bazzar and was open only to women on thursday 's during the mughal era .
aurangabad , the closest railhead , is directly connected to mumbai , delhi , agra , and bhopal .
india offers some unique destinations that are best reached in jeeps .
there is a tourist lodge on the lake that provides basic accommodation and has a decent restaurant .
from ajmer the nearest airport is jaipur which is 135kms away .
the palace regales the historically inclined tourist to its royal rooms and suits , its log huts and bamboo cottages .
in an attempt to turn the area into an art district , city conservationists organized the kalaghoda fair , an open air craft bazaar , and cultural arena .
the amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces , halls , stairways , pillared pavilions , gardens & temples .
this small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic .
the history of karkota dynasty after jayaditya is a sad story of decline .
the coastal climate of maharastra makes traveling pleasant all round the year .
kashmir was the most flourishing centre of buddhist learning in this period .
a four storeyed building made after the independence of the country , the vidhana sabha houses the state legislative assembly and part of the secretariat .
it clearly reveals intimate cultural contact between the valley , and plains of india in the 10th century .
a few pieces of sculpture include an image of brahma ( 12th century .
adjoining tipu 's summer palace is the venkataramanaswamy temple , a 300-year old temple built by the wodeyars and still in very good condition .
most of the sleepy towns you encounter on these stretches only have ' eateries ' or communal dining rooms , as opposed to restaurants .
sam sand dunes is a perfect tourist destination known for the sunset and sunrise point .
ancient accounts such as those by strabo and pliny the elder give us a brief description of the ` ` tower ` ` and the magnificent white marble cover .
in a city of gardens that bangalore is , the cubbon is a premier attraction for all those who seek some respite from the busy metropolitan life here .
the national gallery is housed in the building that was formerly sir cowasji jehangir public hall .
a century ago in dickens ' day , the hall was a more focal point .
today , ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the hindus as well as muslims .
new activities are constantly emerging and the industry is becoming more and more sophisticated .
the best way to explore periyar is by boat , you also have the option of spending time atop watchtowers .
the letter of the inscription around archways at the taj mahal , are generally supposed to become larger and larger above .
chandigarh is connected by good motor able roads with amritsar 240 kms , dehradun 230 kms , delhi 248 kms , shimla 117 kms , kulu 279 kms , bhakra 116 kms , kasauli 77 kms , and jammu 380 kms .
the new year is celebrated more enthusiastically in bangalore than any other festival .
jacanas with their iridescent colors and elegant tail feathers and purple moorhen can be seen delicately treading over the floating vegetation .
shree shree govindajee temple is a great historic centre and is a simple and beautiful structure with gold domes and a large raised congregation hall .
gradually this demographic shift was to change the character of the city altogether .
the holy sangam is the site for annual magha mela / ardh kumbh / kumbh mela .
the emperor sat in the centre and discussions and debate were held here .
the mughal rulers erected several works of art as an admiration of this land .
this central courtyard also enshrines the deity of the royal family .
an entire township now known as taj ganj came up around the site .
transit passengers who have a follow-on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
the time of the year when nature dawns all its colorful splendor and agra bursts into colorful celebrations .
dharamshala is famous as the abode of the dalai lama and is called as the ` ` little lhasa ' because of the large number of tibetan population .
other immigrants were americans , europeans ( portuguese , british and dutch ) and chinese .
construction of the dam began in 1960 as a national project , undertaken by egyptian president nasser who nationalized the suez canal to provide funds for the project .
it is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer , receive favors and feel amply gratified .
the monument itself stands on a raised platform with four minarets in the corners .
visitors are allowed to see the ashokan pillar and saraswati kup , a well , said to be the source of the saraswati river and jodhabai palace .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
to get there is easy thanks to the docklands light railway , six stops south from canary wharf .
udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty , one of the famous city of rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts .
those who do will find statues honoring a number of past british prime ministers .
for the white water rafting enthusiast , the early stages of the ganga offer the exhilarating alakananda and bhagirathi rivers .
today , the reservoir known as lake nasser spans approximately 500 kilometers across the egyptio-sudanese border .
virtually all phases of indian history have left their mark on madhya pradesh , historically known as malwa .
in 1661 , charles ii of england received the islands of bombay as dowry when he married princess catherine of braganza .
the most exotic mansions or havelis , all intricately latticed , are stretched all over jaisalmer , each with a different facade .
the people named the valley as kashyap-mar and kashyap-pura. .
prince karamasi originally built the fort as a protection of the village from foreign or neighboring invasions .
it is the oldest , yet it is the only surviving of the seven ancient wonders .
agra is situated in the state of utter pradesh , india .
the historic purana qila , which has stood witness to delhi 's rejuvenation , periods of anarchy , and the rise & fall of empires , brings alive history of the capital .
just look up the dictionary for the french , italian , or spanish word for lighthouse .
himachal tourism development corporation has constructed a glass house for residential purpose in solan .
rose garden situated in the heart of ooty town , this garden has been beautifully laid out in terraces with rose tunnels , pergolas and bowers with rose .
the final chapter came when in ad 401 the temple of artemis was torn down by st john chrysostom .
literally kullu is the valley of hundred temples and a thousand derties , it offers peace , a mysterious , spiritual peace .
in the early fifteenth century , the knights of st john of malta invaded the region and built a massive crusader castle .
the colorful dresses of the kinnauri women and their sweet folk songs make the valley all the more bright and cheerful .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
high court , an attractive building built in 1878 in the early english gothic style .
this beautiful park at port blair has facilities like amusement rides , safe water sports , and nature trail around the lake , garden restaurant and historic remains like japanese temple as well as a bunker .
in 1845 queen victoria asked for the palace to be extended to make more room for her growing family of four children .
shakespeare , hogarth , lenin and pepys have all had associations with clerkenwell and some of the old trades such as printing and clock making still survive .
the fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders akbar and later jehangir and shahjahan .
darjeeling and sikkim also have some trekking routes .
areas of london still bear the names of the gates in the wall , the main ones being aldgate , cripplegate , bishopsgate , newgate and ludgate .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska which have gentler rocks .
for local food , try the simple stalls in bara bazaar or the dhabas in zodin square .
about one percent of the population of kerala and tamilnadu are tribal , where as about six percent in andhra pradesh and karnataka are members of tribes .
a short distance away from the city looms one of the most magnificent fortresses in india , the golconda fort .
situated between 90-96 degree east longitude and 24-28 degree north latitude , assam is bordered in the north and east by the kingdom of bhutan and arunachal hills .
near the gardens of taj mahal stands the mughal monument known as red fort of agra .
on the beach are statues of india 's freedom fighters , lokmanya tilak and vallabh bhai patel who symbolize the freedom struggle .
the banqueting house is the only remaining complete building of whitehall palace , the sovereign 's principal residence from 1530 until 1698 when it was destroyed by fire .
now the list of organized , commercial activities has expanded dramatically .
let us see the other palaces that make mysore ` ` palace city .
a historic building now turned hotel a modern day hotel .
chennai has many temples and each one of them is worth a visit .
india was among the countries which had railway lines since 19th century .
$ 40 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
around & about by air flights from calcutta , silchar and guwahati connect aizawl six days a week .
set amidst the hills , the small and clean exquisite town of palampur is bejeweled with lush green terraced fields , the majestic deodar trees , beautiful tea gardens , pine forests , the snow clad and breath taking dhauladhar range with its imposing sky high peaks .
bharatpur is conveniently located on the agra - jaipur highway , only 56 kms from agra and approx. 175 kms from delhi .
the original american elevators by otis in the north and south piers took visitors up to the second floor in a double-decker cabin , using hydraulically powered cables .
he devoted the last thirty years of his life to his experimental research .
it is well known for its medieval temples and chaugan , a public promenade .
this little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world .
a stroll down the tea plantations is what we all yearn for after all they are a perfect visual feast ever so immaculately captured by the magicians of bollywood .
public buildings and churches in european style can be found in many other towns such as visakhapatnam , vijayawada , vizianagaram , machilipatnam and even tirupati .
ruling from their capital city , tenochtitlan , the zatecs demanded heavy tribute from their subjects , which caused some to side with cortes .
the 300-acre park was laid in 1864 by lord cubbon .
it was napoleon 's engineers who , around 1800 ad , revived the idea of a shorter trade route to india via a suez canal .
the metro cities mumbai ( 545 km ) , delhi ( 915 km ) , calcutta , chennai and other major cities are linked by a number of super fast , express and mail trains .
the east india company developed chennai as one of the major trading centers in india .
thus lalitaditya must be regarded as the founder not only of shortlived empire , but also of six centuries of kashmir hindu art .
babur s son , the emperor akbar , who was a great empire builder commissioned the agra fort in 1565 and the city grew around the nucleus of the fort .
the kala ghoda area is home to some of the city 's most beautiful buildings - the elphinstone college , the david sassoon library , the army navy building and the once-celebrated watson hotel .
the temples of khajuraho are brilliant example of medieval indian architecture .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight and celebrate the buddhist heritage of andhra pradesh .
the camel fair at pushkar can be another added attraction if the travelers want to witness a camel dance in all its elegant glory .
the city dominated by the massive mehrangarh fort on a rocky hill is charming with its wealth of historic attractions and colorful markets which specializes in antiques .
handsome georgian and victorian houses provide homes for super wealthy aristocrats , film stars and musicians while some even act as embassies and consulates .
there is a bandstand , where bands play throughout the summer months .
at the top stage , the mirror reflected sunlight during the day while fire was used during the night .
when the mirror was brought down mistakenly , they did not restore it back into place .
it soon became a meeting place for contemporary writers such as yeats and george bernard shaw .
located on a strategic point in the heartland of india allahabad was also of great importance for the mughal rulers and later the british .
fulham broadway has become something of a haunt for people wanting a lively night out .
the st sebastian 's church here is an important christian pilgrim centre .
` ` pietra dura ` ` the inlay works on marble so characteristic of the taj was first used .
a lovely natural harbor and winding creek set off the city of mumbai from the long , narrow coast of western india .
visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks .
these churches are resplendent in their classical elegance and fine internal furnishings .
built in 1680 by shivaji , the fort is now crumbling all that remains are the ramparts and a moss encrusted step well .
until the completion of the main palace auditorium in 1912 all the annual day and dashara festival celebration were taking place here .
he garrisoned armies at the wall to stand guard over the workers as well as to defend the northern boundaries .
moreover , the fallen colossus would have blocked the harbor entrance .
lime street , london , built in 1986 this most futuristic building is the headquarters for lloyd 's insurance .
then of course , there is a range of the conventional sporting activities , which can be viewed at various stadiums .
ajanta unfinished caves are unfinished monasteries of the second phase of excavation .
inside are remains of brick houses , paved roads , tanks , a drainage system and a large 5th century bc stupa .
the white marbled moti masjid or the pearl mosque was the private mosque for aurangzeb .
rose garden was set up in the year 1995 to commemorate the 100th flower show of the botanical garden .
completed in 1613 a.d. by his son jahangir , sikandra fort is one of the well preserved monuments .
science city has space theatre .
arriving in darjeeling can be fun as a ride on the ` ` toy train ` ` on its run of 82 kms is through a markedly sylvan surrounding .
most outlets ( especially on the king 's road ) tend to be small , with smart fashionable bars and restaurants jostling for space in between .
the 12th century sachiya mata temple has a large assembly hall with an elaborately carved ceiling and exquisitely sculptured figures of several gods .
the highest grade climbed is curreltly 32 ; serious climbing starts aroung 10 , beginners normally do the early tens and then move upwards .
large sections of the wall can be seen close to the museum of london and near tower hill station next to the tower of london .
the white marble came from makrana in rajasthan and the red sandstone from fatehpur sikri .
the marine life of corals and fish is rich and colorful and is a delight for snorkels .
their poor performance led to their removal .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
5km away is ruantlang , a village where the traditional mizo way of life has been preserved .
allahabad s majestic fort has three magnificent galleries flanked by high towers .
this building has been used by the legal profession since the 14th century .
15 kms from mysore is the old capital of tipu sultan , srirangapatna .
chail is a very small hamlet and a hill station where you can discover nature at its best untouched by the pollution , deforestation and modern construction .
with no parallel in the world , the minarets have been so designed that when one is shaken the other sways in sympathy .
bangalore was founded by kempe gowda in the early 16th century .
in addition , paraguay boasts breathtaking waterfalls where the borders of brazil , paraguay , and argentina come together .
on the narrow platform at the top , eiffel received his decoration from the legion of honor .
declared a world heritage site by the unesco , the taj mahal has always evoked varying emotions from wonder to ecstasy and often times , inspired poetic verse .
standing as tall as the mountains , the bolivians ' pride for their homeland is always evident and always justified .
kanak vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in jaipur .
the climate of the state is dominated by the himalayan system and the altitudinal variations .
the devastation was so much that a ban on fresh construction was belatedly imposed by the government .
his son aurangzeb , who was in constant conflict with local chieftains and neighboring principalities , added the outer ramparts .
the amber fort located at a distance of 11 kilometers from jaipur , rajasthan , india .
with the fall of vijayanagar empire in 1565 ad , the wodeyars inherited and perpetuated the traditions of vijayanagar empire .
dashavatar temple dedicated to lord vishnu is the earliest known panchyatan temple in north india .
the national maritime museum is home to the world 's largest maritime historical reference library , as well as a wealth of nautical exhibits and artifacts .
the area extends from oxford street in the north to piccadilly in the south and hyde park in the west to regent street in the east .
the villages of kumarakom are a cluster of little islands on the vembanad lake , and this small water world is part of the kuttanad region .
though the city has well equipped shops , branded cosmetics and toiletries may not be easily available but items like camera films etc are easily and widely available .
it left the country unaffected by the drought that hit africa during the late 1980 's , and , in the 1990 's , spared egypt several unexpectedly high floods .
it was majjhantika , a celebrated buddhist missionary who was deputed to kashmir and urvasa to preach the faith of buddha in those territories .
on the way to kumbhalgarh lays the magnificent dam-the rajsamand lake .
tourists from all over the world come to see backwater .
the area that can be visited include imphal city , loktak lake , ina memorial ( moirang ) , sendra , keibul lamjao national park & khongjom war memorial .
his chief queen amrit prabha built ' amrit bhawan ' vihar for foreign pilgrims and students who came to kashmir in large numbers for learning .
the backwater cruises in kerala are definitely a mustdo .
nehru planetarium is within the compound of teen murti .
they being , marpas , sherdukpens , membas and khambas who live in the high mountains and are rumoured to have their origin in burma and thailand .
he married the hindu princess of jaipur , and her brother raja man singh became one of his trusted lieutenants .
they often provide good , reliable budget accommodation in a city renowned for its high prices .
the one to the left holds friday prayers even today .
a regular haunt of the writer graham greene , its back bar is reputed to be the smallest in england measuring just 4ft by 7ft .
though not as large as its compatriot in jaipur jantar mantar at delhi also an attraction for the tourists .
the junta lasted five years , before giving way to the civilian government of augusto leguia .
kumarakom , located on the southern coast of india enjoys a well balanced tropical climate .
the changing light of thte rising and setting sun gives varied hues of gold , russet and pink to the imposing arch .
the western ghats have mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
german born marx made london his permanent home in 1849 after he was expelled from prussia and france because of his radical views .
the palace of the nawab and the janjira caves are also a must for the tourist .
the andamans have some fascinating underwater marine life , varieties of colorful fishes , shipwrecks and exotic coral reefs .
it has an impressive garden called the mughal gardens .
though motor sport started with circuit racing in india , the fact today remains that racing has hardly progressed within the country .
at the site of the mausoleum itself , only the foundation remains of the once magnificent wonder .
these are legal societies with the power to call people to the bar .
kullu is the second portion of kangra , and the beas here flows amidst broad cultivated terraces , about 1 , 000 meters ( 3 , 281 ft ) above sea level .
the holy place sangam is the place where the three holy rivers ganga , yamuna , and the mythical saraswati merge into one .
$ 45 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
the fort built in the 13th century , served the kings as a stronghold , administrative centre and market place .
their account of their explorations , which were of a place that was cool and teeming with the game and wildfowl , stoked the interest of the boss .
rahul was the son of buddha and the name lahaul is derived from rahul .
madras , or chennai as it is now called , is known as the gataway of southern india .
the srinagar valley is known amongst the hill stations of india for its resplendent valleys , high and clear waterfalls and the frozen dal lake , which is the destination for all the honeymooners and tourists alike .
situated in the hills of the western ghats , the periyar region is a forest rich area inhabited by a large population of mammals .
every spring the stones of khajuraho come to life during the prestigious 7-day khajuraho dance festival when the glory of the temples is celebrated with true fervour and joy .
the present lambeth bridge was constructed over three years between 1929 and 1932 , from concrete and steel .
minjar fair has been declared as one of the state fairs of himachal pradesh .
even once known , antarctica seemed inhospitable and incomprehensible and , in many ways , it still is .
the threshold of the lahaul plateau is nourished by chandra & bhaga rivers .
sarswati festival is celebrated throughout india but takes on special significance in kerala .
if you are ready for the crowds and noise , they can be a great money saver .
though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports , hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as pune , delhi , chandigarh , shimla , mumbai , devlali , banglore and kalaheti .
later , a new company was formed in 1894 , and the work was completed in 1899 .
in winters , one can indulge in the winter sports like skiing and tobogganing .
several sites in india have been identified by expert hang gliders with those in the lower reaches of the himalayas rated as / among the best in the world .
chennai is a gracious city that has a clear skyline , longest sandy beaches , parks , historic landmarks and tourist infrastructure facilities which make it a convenient entry point or base to start a tour of tamil nadu and south india .
andhra pradesh is the home of rich cultural heritage and handicrafts .
the ganga golden jubilee museum has a large collection of pottery , paintings , carpets , coins , and armory .
bombay now called as mumbai is the capital city of maharashtra .
they tell us how the mysterious mirror could reflect the light tens of kilometers away .
from an architectural standpoint , the monument has been used as a model for many prototypes along the mediterranean , as far away as spain .
spice garden and plantation estates surround the national park .
presidents house , this palace like buioding was build by the british with a blend of mughal and western culture .
this 29 sq km keoladeo ghana national park is also the breeding ground for the rare siberian crane .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
naturally , in course of time , many people embraced buddhism here .
the dome atop the palace adds to the beauty of the palace .
there is a museum inside the junagarh fort which has collections of valuable antique objects .
the shri satya sai baba ashram is the chief attraction at whitefield .
kuchipudi , the classical dance originating from the state has vigorous choreography and is somewhat akin to bharatanatyam .
in early 1995 , full-scale fighting broke out after talks broke down , continuing intermittently until a settlement was reached in 1999 .
restaurants cater mainly to the local citizens and provide good , clean and tasty fare .
the naga hills run through this small state nagaland , which has saramati as its highest peak at a height of 12 , 600 ft .
the dalai lama presented some beautiful tankhas .
delhi is the base for indian airlines operations in north india and the airline connects the city with all major centers of tourist and business interest in the country .
even the locals get lost , so allow plenty of time to navigate .
the water supply for the city is from parson 's valley .
mysore is also known as the city of palaces .
today , the great pyramid is enclosed , together with the other pyramids and the sphinx , in the touristy region of the giza plateau .
french guiana has the benefit of an ideal geographical situation , set between the caribbean and the amazon .
travel a little outside agra and you ' ll come to fatehpur sikri , a site for monuments that are historically as important as the taj mahal .
according to mythology a young brahmin dived into the vembanad lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for the land to rose from below .
the main attraction of periyar national park is the periyar lake , formed by the construction of a dam on the periyar river in 1895 .
the tomb derives its name from the glazed tiles ( chini ) on its fa ade .
since then it has become a place of pilgrimage for both , hindus and sikhs .
one can explore the park by traveling around in tiny small boats and also climb up the watchtower located on the hillock of bebet ching .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
shimla , the summer capital of the british india , is situated at a height of 2 , 196 meters .
there is a wide variety of hotel accommodation available , and covers a wide range of budgets .
they took advantage of rebellion from within and stepped into the void of power without extended wars .
you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
the story of taj mahal is a love story not found in papers but stands in the structural form .
the main mountaineering locales are in the garhwal and kumoan regions of uttar pradesh .
on the hammersmith bank are a number of handsome regency houses interspersed with riverside pubs and boathouses .
this palace was built in 1842 and used as ` ` special school ` ` for young princes .
bharatpur , the ' gateway to eastern rajasthan ' acquires its own importance in the tourist map of india .
a 3 , 500 km long and a towering 8 , 848 meter high divine legend garland india and the subcontinent .
it had its own chapel and many shops and houses too .
from the early period of its history , tribes like the koilis , halis , dagis , dhaugris , dasa , khasas , kinnars and kirats inhabited it .
on the river banks , recently discovered massive walls 25 m thick may have been stepped to form terraces . . . the ones described in greek references .
one of its first actions was to launch an ambitious program of restoration and renovation of the tower .
the andes mountain range crosses the country from north to south .
the sufi saints are considered to be the greatest ambassadors of islam in pakistan and india .
an ideal picnic spot with enhancing landscape of wooded hills and beautiful chhatris on the embankment of the 10.5 sqkm placid lake .
a panoramic vie of bithoor can be enjoyed from valmiki ashram .
built around 1000 a.d. , the temples of khajuraho ( kha-ju-ra-ho ) are india 's immortal gift of sensual love to the world .
the birla mandir stands on a hill overlooking the south end of hussain sagar .
the town has rich growth of deodar and pine forests as well as tea gardens .
barring africa , there is perhaps no part of the world where such a variety of wildlife exists .
although it disappeared from existence , the ancient world wonder inspired modern artists such as french sculptor auguste bartholdi best known by his famous work .
once in 12 years , the mammoth ' kumbh mela ' festival is held in ujjain .
that agra is unparalleled as a travel destination is an established fact .
the place is untouched by the outside world of modernity .
this area is ideal for day hikes from aizawl .
156 square kms in area , the madhav national park of shivpuri is open throughout the year .
dense rain forests and canopies of luxuriant green branches host a variety of birds , insects , and all kind of life .
besides these ancient sites , about 45 kms from allahabad are popular picnic spots for local people .
the material for taj mahal was brought in from all over india and central asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site .
the state of maharashtra is one of the largest in india .
the main astronomical instruments set up at this royal observatory are the jaiprakash yantra , ram yantra and the samrat yantra .
hotels in agartala offer basic amenities and few have air conditioned rooms .
brahma also referred the allahabad as ` tirth raj or the ` king of all pilgrimage centres .
a swimming pool has been built in a modern style and joining to this palace is the zoo garden .
other islands one can visit from port blair itself would be wandour beach , corbyn s cove , jolly buoy , and ross island .
according to hari thakur , the contest between jabalpur and chhattisgarh for the name mahakosala is settled beyond doubt in favor of chhattisgarh in the light of available evidence .
53km to the south of agartala is the water palace , built in 1930 in the middle of rudrasagar lake .
this includes the ceremony of the state opening of parliament .
there is little choice as far as eating out is concerned .
jaswant thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
konark beach is 3 kms away from the temple along the puri road .
the miniature paintings belong to the mughal , rajasthani and kangra schools of art while the sculptures are from the gandharva school of art .
it comes administratively under papumpare district .
itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical ita fort , and other tourist attractions here would be gyaker sinyi or the ganga lake .
situated in western rajasthan , jodhpur has long attracted both the domestic and outside tourist .
it was during the time of third emperor akbar that agra came into its own .
nature has composed its magic to perfection at kumarkom .
corbett national park is rightfully named after the man who was instrumental in its creation .
the entry of all outsiders , except the hindus , was banned in the state then .
though devotees visit these temples through the year , during the navratras devotees come from near and far , during the festivals there are special bus services to these temples .
traveling in the opposite direction from piccadilly circus is shaftesbury avenue with its many famous theatres .
the economic ruin was hastened by the extravagant habits of both the rulers and the ministers .
arbuda , the hill serpent descended from the hills to act as a savior for lord shiva 's bull , nandi .
in garhwal region the sacred river ganga offers the professional as well as the amateur the exhilaration of white water rafting .
across india makar sankranti is celebrated as a harvest festival , but this is the day of kites at jaipur and jaipurites are famous for their expertise in kite flying .
hotels have restaurants attached to them and primarily serve indian food .
it is india where polo the game of kings was rediscovered and nurtured since the medieval times .
although we do not know the true shape and appearance of the colossus , modern reconstructions with the statue standing upright are more accurate than older drawings .
this fort has a special historical significance as it was from this particular fortress that the rani of jhansi and tantiya tope fought for the indian independence .
there is also a tea and tourism festival in ooty in january .
the houseboats may look rugged on the outside but inside they have a quaint rustic softness .
the golden temple is located in the holy city of the sikhs , amritsar , once and the dense forest home of guru nanak .
kufri is known for trekking and hiking trails .
the nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn , attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty .
christopher 's place just opposite bond street station has an almost invisible entrance and leads to an entirely different world of up-market boutiques , intimate restaurants and charming specialist shops .
it is in fact an enigma of mud huts & sky - scrapers , age old traditions & high fashions , the industrialists ' heaven & movie makers ' hollywood .
the asiatic society started a public museum in 1814 .
the structure is one of the best examples of mughal architecture .
and yet , this unashamedly capitalist crucible hides another side .
the area covering regent 's park was formerly a church property called manor of tyburn .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world .
delhi also bears the marks of the freedom struggle .
in earlier times , jaisalmer 's strategic position on the camel train route brought it great wealth .
44kms from konark is pipli , a centre for appliqu work , which depict the essence of oriya culture .
maharaja sawai pratap singh of jaipur , rajasthan , built the hawa mahal in the year 1799 .
the construction of taj mahal was started in ad 1632 and completed at the end of 1648 ad .
mumbai is india s international gateway .
permanent galleries include medieval bengali and indian miniature paintings , textiles and excellent specimens of old hand woven daccai and baluchari saris .
the ruins of those periods can still be seen on the bellary road , at lal bagh , ulsoor and gavi gangadhareswar temple .
the cause for wonder about this nandi is that it has been carved from a single boulder .
court number one is the most interesting , with its original furniture and dock leading to the detaining cells below .
a beautiful little hill resort , dharamshala is 90 kms from pathankot , lying on the other side of chamba .
bangalore , capital of karnataka , is called the garden city for its delicate blossoms and greenery that impart a unique beauty to this lovely city .
amongst the finest examples of buddhist art , sanchi is the one .
cochin is also famous for export of fisheries , spices , coconuts , cardamoms , tea , and rubber .
a land of steep hills and deep gorges , mizoram 's highest peak ' the blue mountain ' rises to a height of 2165 meters .
war cemetries are managed by the commonwealth war graves commission , commemorating the memories of the british and indian soldiers , who died during the second world war .
port blair is connected to calcutta and chennai by alliance air .
the water channels crisscrossing the garden used to be full of colorful fish of various species .
when daniel defoe visited westminster hall during his tour of 1724 , he said it resembled a barn .
kasol , on the parvati river , is an angler 's paradise .
there 's a prehistoric animal section , a toy train ride around the park , a lion safari and a nocturnal section .
the interior of this chaitya hall is decorated with carved buddha figures .
the main entrance to the dargah , the nizam gate is of 70 feet height , it was constructed by the nizam of hyderabad .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
some of them are mysore palace , jaganmohan palace , jayalakshmi vilasa , lalitha mahal etc .
these are the elected house of commons and the house of lords , made up of hereditary and life peers .
tidal waves resulted in the destruction of more than 150 villages , and were felt in france and england .
feast your eyes on the beauty of nature and tribal lives of simple rural folk .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
the royal city bikaner has a timeless charm like no other .
the nearest railhead is in ratlam ( madhya pradesh ) which is 80km from kumbhalgarh and is connected with all the major cities of the country .
presently , motor sport includes activities like autocross , motocross , drag racing , motor gymkhana , treasure hunts and precise family rallies .
indoor climbing gyms help in developing many skills in outdoor climbing especially rock climbing .
he introduced new fashions in dress and ornaments .
it is understood that goddess cauvery graces this hill station in india , coorg for a revenues with her kith and kin .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska , which have gentler rocks .
it was at this ashram that gandhiji began his salt satyagraha .
the festival features performances of music and dance , both classical and folk , flower shows , events for children , exhibitions by local artists , photographers and craftsman and a wide range of other activities .
bikaner was founded by rao bika , second son of the founder of jodhpur .
also to be found here is the theatre museum packed full of theatrical memorabilia from the last 300 years .
kottayam links you to all major cities in kerals and india with numerous trains plying this route daily .
the desert national park is a vast stretch of protected bio-sphere reserve with an area of over 3000 square kms .
uppada , a beach town located 20 kms from kakinada is famous for beautifully designed cotton sarees .
chamba is ancient capital of pahari kings situated on the bank of river ravi at an altitude of 996 meters .
always a tourist favorite , the city cochin offers visitors plenty .
this is kumarakom , one of the worlds most talked about destinations .
the base is carved with floral motifs , of roses , tulips , and narcissi .
the capsule in which rakesh sharma went into space is also kept here .
earlier , the statue had been transported by wealthy greeks to a palace in constantinople .
dancers gyrate , the music beats and the summer temperature rises .
this 19th century building boasts of a unique natural air-conditioning system and the displays include exquisite bronzes , ancient ornament and costumes , ivory carvings and musical instruments , and a whole temple chariot .
the nrityagram celebrates the vasantha habba ( the spring ) every year .
indian travel destinations organizes tours to goa as a prominent honeymoon destination in india for the aspiring honeymooners in india and abroad .
television companies often use both this park and the grass area across the road near the jewel tower , where they interview politicians .
caparisoned slephants with beaded umbrellas , processions of decorated floats , and highly ornate boats make this a lovely event to witness .
dalhousie square ( renamed benoy-badal-dinesh bagh after the three martyrs of bengal ) was created in the heart of the imperial capital of calcutta .
today , its well developed facilities , easy accessibility and many attractions make it one of india 's most popular hill resorts in the himalayan lower ranges .
the concrete campus and its accompanying lawns are meant to express the strength and unity of independent india .
although it is unusual to see many animals from the boats , still you spot a family of elephants , wild boar , and sambar deer by the water s edge .
kulu offers a variety of scenic charms , from wooded glades to barren rocks with snow above the tree line .
it was opened as a museum in 1923 and has three main sections art , archaeology and natural history .
chennai is head quarters to the theosophical society in india .
the indian python and king cobra are among the reptilian fauna .
allahabad has a wide range of hotels , with budget hotels located around the chowk in the old city .
urs is celebrated from the ist to the 9th of rajab annually .
kufri is a famous tourists spot only 16 kms from shimla .
there are not too many defenders of the millennium dome around these days .
electronics city is an industrial park spread over 330 acres exclusively meant for electronics industries .
legend has it that akbar , who had no son , went to the sufi saint sheikh salim chishti to seek his blessings .
at ayodhya several religions have grown and prospered simultaneously and also at different periods of time in the past .
the five star hotels have good restaurants , which serve authentic mughlai cuisine .
today , alappuzha has grown in importanceas a backwater tourist centre , attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year .
the banqueting house later became the scene of king charles i 's execution .
best time to visit thiruvananthapuram are , if you love the rains , anytime and if you don t september to may .
at the time of writing , no commercial airlines operate to allahabad .
the best idea around oxford street is to venture down the smaller streets which often contain old pubs and interesting shops .
itaip 's energy production has broken several records over the recent years , after the last generating unit was commissioned in 1991 .
the emphasis remains on providing for the community of people who live here .
for a breathtaking beautiful view of the taj mahal , see it by moonlight .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
even during the region of the mughals , it was called ratanpur territory and not chhattisgarh .
udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes , well structured palaces , lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the lake palace and the city palace .
let your senses sway to the romance of the surroundings as you pass forts , palaces , historical landmarks and villages .
before this , the continent was the subject of constant speculation , spoken of in almost mythical terms as terra australia incognita the unknown southern land .
avalanche is located at a distance of 28 kms from ooty .
there is a very interesting stupa constructed on elevated terrace which is the first of its kind in andhra pradesh .
a peculiar person , mant committed suicide after constructing some two dozen masterpieces because he was terrified that one of buildings would collapse .
the island lies between thaneermukkom and kumarakom , and is accessible only by boat .
all inscriptions , literary works and the accounts of foreign travelers , made this region kosala of dakshin kosala .
a slightly scruffy area suffering from an unsightly flyover cutting right through its centre , hammersmith is home to the apollo which hosts many top class acts and popular shows .
by road it takes 3 hours to drive from dacca , the capital of bangladesh , to agartala .
around & about by air ahmedabad is connected to mumbai , delhi and major cities of india by air .
salim singh ki-haveli is just three centuries old , and is still lived in , its arched roof is held up by well excluded brackets in the form of peacocks .
from 377 to 353 bc , king mausollos of caria reigned and moved his capital to halicarnassus .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
the plan to build a tower 300 meters high was conceived as part of preparations for the world 's fair of 1889 .
the city is full of architectural delights .
there are wax models of the famous and infamous from every walk of life .
it is believed that kalidasa the 4th century sanskrit poet and play wright choose the setting for its masterpiece ` ` abhigyana shakuntalam ` ` in nag paharthe snake s forest heritage .
the annual flower , fruit and vegetable shows are regularly held here .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
the temperatures are moderate and several festivals coincide with this period .
the central market , sojati gate , station road , sardar market , tripollia bazaar , mochi bazaar , lakhera bazar are some of the best shopping place in jodhpur .
it was nainital where col james edward corbett was born .
brindavan is an interesting place , and the sage has quite a few interesting aspects to his personalities .
the parade ground is also the venue for the annual trooping the colors and beating retreat ceremonies .
agra fort houses the beautiful pearl mosque and numerous palaces including the jahangiri mahal , khas mahal , diwanikhas , diwaniam , machihi bhawan and moti madjid .
he has many other features like omnipresence , eternality , and formlessness , though independence is peculiar to him .
the monpas and sherdak pens of tawang and west kameng districts follow the lamaistic tradition of mahayana buddhism .
the important festivals of ooty are thaipoosam in elk hill murugan temple , bookkapuram mariamman annual festival , ooty mariamman temple festival , coonoor mariamman temple festival , boat races and boat races and boat pageantry in ooty , flower show in ooty and fruit show in coonoor .
gujarat had close ties with the life of the father of modern india , mahatma gandhi .
birla mandir is a splendid temple built entirely out of white marble .
the shaking minarets of sidi bashir s mosque has generated tremendous curiosity .
this new lighting fixture is coupled with the gold-toned lighting system in place since 1986 for maximum effect .
the district of raipur possesses three wildlife sanctuaries .
the word dehradun too has a lot of meaning attached to it .
kullu is known for its ancient temples , apple orchards and the annual dusshera festival .
nestled in a narrow valley , the beautiful vidyadhar 's garden was built in honor of jai singh 's chief architect and town planner .
you can see and enjoy the rustic wooden bridges , sea of flowers , jogging paths , thatched huts , and paddle boats .
up tourism organizes the taj mahotsav every year between 18th and 27th february .
a perfect blend of arts , culture and craft is presented in shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material .
apart from this picture postcard beauty of kerala , a tour to chithirapuram reveals its agricultural importance to the more interested souls .
ephesus was later deserted , and only in the late nineteenth century has the site been excavated .
india travel destinations arranges for tours for honeymooners in india and the destinations for honeymooners in india are spread out all over the length and breadth of the country .
in time , the federation of motor sports clubs of india ( fmsc ) became the governing body of this sport .
the sidi bashir mosque with its twin jhulta minars ( shaking minarets ) which has been one of the city s prime attractions for centuries .
early pyramids , such as the step pyramid of king zoser ( djoser ) at saqqara by the famous egyptian architect , imhotep , illustrate this connection .
the nat west tower was previously the head office of a british bank and is now the international financial centre .
located on the river plate , which has been one of the essential elements for the development of the territory , montevideo is also the country 's natural trading centre .
important tourist places in the city are the umaid bhawan palace , mahendragarh fort , jaswant thada and mandore garden .
secunderabad , which is part of hyderabad , originally developed around a british cantonment , set up in 1798 .
tourist places like birla mandir , charminar , golconda fort , salnejung museum are found here .
the most exciting feature of the festival however , are the snake boat races held at several places on the palm .
he brought in european varieties of wheat and barley ( which the badagas knew as sullivan ganji ) , vegetables such as cabbage , radish and turnip and fruits such as peach , apple and strawberry .
till emergence of raja wodeyar in 1578 ad , the mysore kingdom was a small feudatory kingdom under the vijayanagar empire .
hyderabad also boasts of one of the largest zoos in india , the nehru zoological park .
the city of the thousand-headed anantha , the holy serpent on which lord vishnu reclines , thiruvananthapuram is one of the most beautiful cities of india .
this has been made possible by improved equipment and transportation , and the availability of year round bookings in areas , hitherto , considered inaccessible .
the panias and irulas are confined to mudhumalai sanctuary .
and today , these offices have become the government arts college a tale of change and continuity that is very much the story of ooty .
still water low park on the hill is very peaceful and for even more peace there is always historic high gate cemetery .
the author of this work mulla ahmad had been able to obtain the names of these kings from an earlier sanskrit work ratnakar .
22 kms southwest of allahabad , is an archaeological site dating well before the 3 rd century bc .
the site india travel destinations takes you on tours to the historical monuments in jaipur that is popularly known as the pink city of rajasthan , india .
the main tourist attractions are panchpula , kalatop and khajiar lake .
in the normal course of events , all hotels in exotic locales are a big draw for people but honeymoon hotels in chennai belong to a different class altogether .
indian travel destinations arranges for tours to coorg , which is another of those lesser-known hill stations in india ensconced amidst the flowing tracts of river cauvery .
a good time to visit the chandigarh is after the rains , from september to november .
along the south lies nagaland , manipur and mizoram and meghalaya lies to her south-west , bengal and bangladesh to her west .
if you are a foodie , flavour food festival is the place where your favourite fantasy come true .
it is said that he got so much wealth from delhi that he was not able to carry in home .
the agra fort retains the irregular outline of the demolished mud wall fort of the lodis .
founded by raja rai singh , the fort is distinguished by its long range of 37 pavilions , a line of balconies and aerial windows of varying designs .
his reign witnessed a period of peace and consolidation and prosperity .
in fact mumbai is the very soul of human enterprise .
allahabad today is an important city where history , culture and religion create a confluence much like the sacred rivers that cares this god-graced land .
despite a vast number of visitors to the main shopping areas , knightsbridge remains one of the most exclusive areas of london .
shopaholics will find plenty to intrigue in the central market , greenwich 's answer to petticoat lane , with an emphasis on vintage clothing .
considering the rudimentary means available at that period , this could be considered record speed .
chail has also the highest cricket ground in the world .
through thick cedar woods one can walk up to the mahasu peak , or examine the little zoo .
soon afterwards , in 1828 , the country declared war on peru , whose armies had invaded gran colombia .
with excellent hotels and guesthouses , the puri beach is an ideal holiday spot .
a little more recently charles dickens worked here as a clerk in the late 1820 's .
bada bagh is a fertile oasis that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city of jaisalmer .
boating and fishing facilities are available at kumarakom .
the umaid bhawan palace was built in the 20th century as a famine relief project , providing employment to its people over a time period of 16 long years .
on september 18 1884 eiffel registered a patent ` ` for a new configuration allowing the construction of metal supports and pylons capable of exceeding a height of 300 meters .
falaknuma palace is a masterpiece designed by an italian architect .
historically , ahmedabad was a major base camp during the indian freedom struggle .
rajasthan means ` ` land of the kings ` ` and the rajputs who lived here for over a thousand years are known for their code of chivalry and honor .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
the period also saw the establishment of small janapadas or republics in himachal pradesh .
he stopped killing of animals and birds throughout his kingdom .
agartala is struggling to keep pace with its essential services vastly outstripped by an increasing population .
the sacred sangam is the confluence of three of the holiest rivers in hindu mythology ganga , yamuna and the mythical saraswati .
apart from these , there are many other rest houses where accommodation is available to suit every budget .
tea plantations are also part of munnar , which is a hill station of note in kerala india .
so wherever you are traveling in india , take a break and visit a wildlife park and see some of india 's abundance of animals and birds .
the internationally famous surajkund crafts mela is held every year in the month of february , to promote indian arts and handicrafts .
one of bangalore 's most attractive features continues to be its pleasant weather .
jumma masjid is considered to be one of the most beautiful mosques in western india .
if you go to the front gate between 3pm and 4pm , you may get an entry pass .
most of the good restaurants are in the sadar bazaar and cantonment areas .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
the assembly of the supports began on july 1 , 1887 and was completed twenty-two months later .
from khonghampat orchidarium one can view over 120 species of orchids besides some of the rarest orchids in the world .
the andaman and nicobar islands have great maritime importance .
more tourist places like jog falls , nandhi hills are found here .
the former portuguese enclave of goa , one of india ; s gems , has enjoyed a prominent place in the travelers lexicon for many years .
taj is one of the wonders of the world .
referred by the chinese traveler hiuen tsang , this town was continuously inhabited from the 8th century bc till the 6th century ad .
he retired and left to england in 1841 and died unsung on january 16 , 1855 exactly 150 years to this day .
indian houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and traveling industry .
though the climate is suitable for visit anytime of the year , the best season is between october-february and just avoids june when it is too hot to sightsee .
lohagarh is also known as the iron fort , lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of bharatpur .
to reach the higher parts , an earth ramp was built around the statue and was later removed .
there is a great selection of over fifty bars , cafes and restaurants catering for the sophisticated to the earthier .
the adilabad district is bounded by maharastra state in the east , west and north directions , karimnagar and nizamabad districts in the south direction .
known as the camel country , bikaner is has also made a mark in industrial sector .
in 1166 , an arab traveler , abou-haggag al-andaloussi visited the lighthouse .
trekking also bring the visitor directly in touch with the country and its people and helps you to appreciate the mountain environment .
originally inhabited by carib and arawak indians , venezuela was claimed as a spanish territory by christopher columbus in 1498 .
a great arrangement is to have a hired taxi waiting for you to ferry you around after your kettuvallam cruise down the backwaters gets over .
in 106 , the romans under trajan finally captured petra to mark the beginning of the decline of the city .
lambeth bridge was opened by king george v and queen mary .
the elephanta island is known as gharapuri ( fortress city .
nestled in the rich land is the royal bengal tiger , the only home to the royal tiger cat .
udayagiri and khandagiri are the twin hills 7 kms. from bhubaneshwar .
opposite ' the house ' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians .
this greenery shaded structure , measuring 19ft by 6.5ft marks the site where the remains of mutaz mahal were deposited when first brought to agra .
an alluring atmosphere of mystery , a land wrapped in velvety silence , is what instantly strikes a visitor to manipur , which literally means ' the land of jewels .
the maharawals ( rulers ) of jaisalmer were devout hindus but were tolerant of jainism , and encouraged art and religion .
sarkhej comprises one of the most elegant architectural complexes of ahmedabad .
the shaking minarets were damaged in the earthquake , but efforts are on to restore as much as is possible .
according to local tradition , like lord shri krishna , lord buddha is also supposed to have visited kashmir .
originally john nash built it as a gateway for buckingham palace , but the great architect got it wrong and made it too small for the royal coaches .
here stands the highest gravity dam in the world which controls the turbulent water of sutlej river for irrigation and power generation .
open through out the week except on mondays .
kanak bhawan has images of sri rama and sita wearing gold crowns. it is also known as sone-ke-ghar. .
the summer temperature does not go very high , due to its proximity to the sea , and the nights are really pleasant .
untouched by the human skills and behaviors , the sand dunes of rajasthan is a perfect gift of nature that presents magical view of the desert .
the royal journey rolls throughout the year except between the month of may and august .
on the corner near parliament square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a member of parliament wants a taxicab .
jaipur is perhaps the ideal city that you can choose for going on historical tours to rajasthan , north india .
the temple city of konark is situated in the eastern state of orissa at a distance of around 65 kms from bhubaneswar and 35 kms from puri .
gateway of india , this 26 meters high stone archway is the first landmark of mumbai a visitor sees when arriving by ship .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
these camps offer accommodation , catering and variety of activities like hiking , fishing , nature tours and rafting .
national museum , it houses an excellent collection of bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
bangalore is situated at an altitude of 920 metres above sea level .
the island offers a wide selection of handicrafts made from wood , fiber and sea shells .
harsha along with his son bhoja were murdered , and the kashmir throne passed into the hands of two princes respectively .
nohsngithiang falls ( in mawsynram ) , the town is also famous for its limestone caves and orange honey , and it also has the oldest presbyterian church .
it is situated on the banks of the river beas on the lower reaches of the himalayas .
a tour to kerala has all allurements of the order of sleepy backwaters , the mystical boatmen and the picturesque tropical forests in their right order .
these include fragment of statues and many slabs of the frieze showing the battle between the greeks and the amazons .
hyder ali and his valiant son tippu sultan are notable figures in the history of the land .
with jeeps and elephants as modes of transport , one gets an excellent opportunity to examine survey and enjoy the diverse flora and fauna of the park .
one of the best institutions called the indian institute of management and indian institute of science are here .
the ooty lake , this artificial lake was constructed by john sullivan , the first collector of ooty .
within this alluring arena , the garwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
these leave from khuri village .
also in 1897 during the wedding ceremony of princess jayalakshmmanni most of the parts of the palace were burnt down by fire .
aranmula is also the centre of boll metal mirror crafts .
there are domestic flights from delhi , khajuraho and varanasi four times a week .
like many other provinces , the kingdom of caria in the western part of asia minor ( turkey ) was so far from the persian capital that it was practically autonomous .
this palace was built by ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the third .
the celebrations culminate in a colorful carnival that attracts both locals and tourists alike .
is it simply a temple , how could it take its place among other unique structures such as the pyramid , the hanging gardens , and the colossus of rhodes .
for years , the sanctuary was visited by merchants , tourists , artisans , and kings who paid homage to the goddess by sharing their profits with her .
the trek from netwar to osla , is through dense forests of chestnuts , walnuts , willows and chinars .
today , this glorious palace on wheels train has become an integral part of royal rajasthan and an honor for india that covers some of the best tourist destinations in rajasthan .
the base was made of white marble , and the feet and ankle of the statue were first fixed .
cross sections of parts of the wall show where medieval londoners continued to maintain and add to the wall .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
administrated by english heritage the jewel tower now houses the exhibition parliament past and present .
originally called sudarshan garh , nahargarh offers a breathtaking view of jaipur .
it also includes carved , gothic windows , which are home to different manifestations of lord shiva in coorg , a beatific hill station in india .
the fifth storey is entirely in white marble as against the lower storey which is finished in red sandstone .
the nahargarh fort located in jaipur , india is also situated on top of a hill .
' astranga ' literally means varied colors and is about 55 kms from konark and is a famous fishing harbor .
ahmedabad is also the main centre of the huge textile industry .
it was painstakingly dismantled and then reconstructed in the arizona desert where it still stands , and carries six lanes of traffic .
you will find the rich greenery of the kullu valley along with bare , brown mountains , glaciers and snowfields .
in kashmir , trout fishing is a lucrative business and the ideal season is from april to october .
panhala is 3 , 127 feet above sea level , but there is no scarcity of water around here .
the napo , galeras , cutuc , and c ndor ranges are located here .
this is now the administrative office of university of mysore ( uom ) and folklore museum .
the historian plutarch later wrote that the goddess was ` ` too busy taking care of the birth of alexander to send help to her threatened temple .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of my sore .
khimsar experiences extreme climatic conditions with very hot summers and cold winters .
to build the statue , his workers cast the outer bronze skin parts .
charminar is a rectangular four arched monumental gate often described as ' the arch of triumph of the east .
the columns were 20 m ( 60 ft ) high with ionic capitals and carved circular sides .
the clock 's four dials each have a diameter of 23ft , the minute hands are 14ft long and the numerals on each face are nearly 2ft high .
mumbai a cluster of seven islands derives its name from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisher folk , its oldest inhabitants. mumbai image .
the clear , warm waters of its caribbean coastline are ideal for snorkeling and diving , while numerous islands off the coast invite visitors to explore .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
there are many 'not-to-be-missed 'sights in mysore like the magnificent mysore palace , sri jayachamarajendra art gallery , st. philomena 's church , and krs brindavan gardens .
when a peace agreement was reached in 304 bc , the antagonids lifted the siege , leaving a wealth of military equipment behind .
river sports in the rapids are the most popular , throughout the summers and can really ret your adrenaline pumping .
the central chamber is octagonal , and in the centre is the tomb of the queen and to one side is the casket of the emperor .
mexico city itself provides a contrast with the country s arresting topography : its sierra madre mountains , volcanoes , national parks and beaches .
there is also a library inside the lalgarh palace which has a large collection of sanskrit manuscripts .
weaving is a traditional art handed down through generations in nagaland .
the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
it was originally called lalbagh because the garden had a profusion of red roses .
argentina refused to recognize british sovereignty and has maintained a consistent claim to sovereignty ever since .
the kail and gori rivers meet at jauljibi where the water volume increases .
it is very likely that the temples that you will visit in chennai are unlike any other that you have seen before .
there are 7 temples in the complex - handraprabhu , parasnath , shitalnath , sambhavnath , shantinath , kunthunath and rikhabdev temple , the temples are all connected by a series of corridors and walkways .
early manipuris were followers of hinduism , and believed in the hierarchy of the gods .
ajmer is especially famous for the dargah shariftomb of the sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chisti , which is equally revered by the hindus and muslims .
the beautiful 6-yard paithani sari is woven with pure silk yarn and gold thread ( drawn from pure gold .
one of the finest ways to discover the royal land of rajasthan is palace on wheels passes which through the inspiring , incomparable , implausible , impressive and inspirational land of india .
jogi mahal now converted into forest rest house is famous for the second largest banyan tree in india .
the temple was constructed in such a manner that the rising sun at the equinoxes shines straing into the shrine and illuminates the image of surya .
also the museum inside the mehrangarh fort has a rich collection of miniatures , musical instruments , costumes , armoury etc .
mehrangarh fort is one of the largest forts in india , situated on a hill top of 125m and spread over an area of 5km .
the state of tripura is supposed to have been named after this temple .
the composition of the forms and lines of the taj mahal is perfectly symmetrical .
copies of the statue were made , including a large prototype at cyrene ( libya ) .
the nishis or nishings is the major tribe in itanagar area .
one of the largest and oldest temples in chennai , the kapaleeswarar temple has inscriptions from the 13th century a.d. and is dedicated to lord shiva .
the boating facility attracts native as well as foreign tourists here in mount abu .
this is second in size , beauty and famous among the palaces .
ranikor is a scenic spot and an angler 's paradise because of a huge population of carp and mahseers .
the temples are a series of towers each higher than the other , culminating in a soaring shikhara .
there are forts on the western side of the palace which is almost in a square shape and has five entrances and is built in indi-cerasenic style .
the hall , which has a collection of hunting trophies , has now been converted into a museum .
cochin is now also an international gateway served by a few international airlines .
chamba is one of the oldest princely states and dates back its origin to 6th century ad .
there are gardens in front of the palace where people can sit and enjoy the beauty of the palace .
the mehtab bagh s forestry plantations and agricultural fields provide a green forecourt to tajmahal and its reflection in yamuna .
the counterbalancing cabin was latched onto a set of cables linking to the master cabin over the top sheaves .
there is an old world charm about the city that reaches out and leaves no one untouched .
it is a perfect and balanced amalgamation of the southern and oriental exclusivity with the western tenets of hospitality and efficient service right at the doorstep of honeymooners in india .
by virtue of its proximity to the sea , the town has always enjoyed a unique place in the maritime history of kerala .
the best time to birds watch is between june and august .
himchal pradesh offers the manali velley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
rajasthan is the indian state which borders pakistan on the western side of the country .
the formal creation of the uruguayan state took place in 1828 .
the sun temple located at modhera in gujarat , west india was constructed during the rule of the solanki ruler , bhimdev i .
kullu is also famous for its handicrafts and woolens like shawl , caps , puhla , namdas and patoos .
when akbar s was son was born in his gratitude , he constructed his capital city and named it fatehpur sikri .
the icy heights of the himalayas the source of some of india s mighty rivers .
mysore in karnataka also has a profusion of palaces and enchanting havelis .
born in dijon in 1832 , he graduated from the ecole centrale des arts et manufactures in 1855 , the same year that paris hosted the first world 's fair .
not surprising , for the mughals emperors with their passion for building , endowed the city with some of the finest structures in the world .
the state has no shops or bars selling liquor .
the light-colored ones are the ones from jaisalmer , and are prized for their speed .
a small charge is made for a 35 minute audio tour , which includes a visit to the crypt .
the scholars also , accept the theory that the valley for over two hundred years was ruled by indo-greek kings before the start of turushka ( kushan ) rule in the state .
however , though the english legacy is undeniable , chennai has continued to be a centre which has blended the foreign influence with the traditional tamil-hindu culture .
shilong the capital city of meghalaya with an incomparable climate which lies at a height of 1 , 496 metres , above sea level .
the southern side of the palace is open to public and has been named ` ` rabindra kanan .
the courtyard of the alamgir dargah ( shrine ) is also the burial spot of the last great mughal emperor , aurangzeb .
mahatma gandhi built the sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , from where he guided india to freedom .
it was here that sage parashuram washed away his sin , sage vyasa meditated , king bhishmaka founded his kingdom and lord krishna married his consort rukmani .
young horses are bought and reared in the hills .
these prehistoric remains are of great interest as they give us a picture of ways and lifestyles of the people who lived in the past .
the duration can vary between one day and two weeks .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
it is still considered to be the official entrance to buckingham palace , hence the presence of the queen 's life guards .
before her , two other queens had ruled kashmir namely yashovati and sugandha .
around some of the concrete corners there are unexpected surprises , like a couple of ancient churches that survived the bulldozer , and even sections of the old london wall .
a journey through the hill resorts hills in arunachal pradesh of india promises a deep and refreshing communion with nature in its varying beauty .
the production of paddy increased and the price of one khirwar ( nearly two mounds ) came down to 36 dinars from 200 dinars .
museum of natural history gives an over all look of the evolution of earth and its natural history .
apart from its long history , the alwar city has a rich natural heritage with some beautiful lakes and picturesque valleys thickly wooded in parts .
often likened to scotland , it has rolling hills , heather-covered slopes , beautiful waterfalls , moving mists , silent lakes and a rich unique variety of flora and fauna .
from the rule of the jats to the early british period , agra s monuments were plundered and exquisitely crafted pieces transported away .
fancy dress carnivals , gymkhanas ice hockey and dances enliven every season in shimla .
lakshminarayan temple is a modern hindu temple built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
the changing the guard ceremony now takes place only every other day in the winter but it is still daily in the summer months .
on the left bank a rockfill dam is linked to the main dam and at the other end to an earthfill dam .
tigers , cital , wild boar and other animals are also found in the ranthambore national park .
parikshith thampuran museum adjacent to the shiva temple was the durbar ( court ) of the cochin rajas .
one can see architectural genius in the neat geometrical design of residential quarters , reinforced concrete structures and self-contained area layouts .
historically famous palnadu war and first and foremost tax non cooperation movement in 1921 were the happenings in this district .
the western catchment is about 20 km from parson 's valley , and it is a rolling grassy down , interspersed with temperate sholas in valleys and depressions .
opposite the old bailey is the church of the holy sepulcher .
the most impressive elevated regions of this area are in the north and include volcano sumaco .
turn right out of high street kensington tube station and a walk of just a few hundred yards will bring you to the gates of kensington palace .
as we go from ooty to gudalur , the change in vegetation is striking .
archbishop 's park next to the palace is used as a public space although it is actually part of the palace grounds .
trekking in india is an unforgettable experience as it not only let you to experience the unexplored trails made by nature .
the gardens also have a green house as an added attraction for the backpack traveling sorts .
dumdama is basically a lake surrounded by the enchanting aravali ranges and is popular for rock climbing , paragliding and ballooning .
the archipelago of col n ( commonly known as the gal pagos islands ) is made up of 13 main islands , 17 islets , and dozens of ancient rock formation .
the 30 rock hewn caves are adorned with buddhist sculpture and the frescoes portray in epic form the religious and secular life through eight centuries .
outside the fort is the main market place called manak chowk which is the centre of local activity .
wular lake is the largest fresh water lake in asia and measures 24 kms across and surrounded by towering mountains .
123 km from jhansi , deogarh is situated on the right bank of the betwa river , at the western end of the lalitpur range of hills .
the sanjay gandhi botanical garden also has an artificial lake where boating can be enjoyed .
this ashram was named hriday kunj , as it was a haven for the so-called untouchables who were addressed as harijans by the mahatma .
fresh tender coconut water is another way to quench your thirst .
the dark-colored camels come from gujarat and the female camels are prized for their milk-producing capacity .
the temples of ummaneshwar and jagannath on the grounds of this palace are open to all .
a year later , a peace treaty was signed and ecuador 's boundaries were permanently established .
kurukshetra is one of the most sacred places for hindus .
constructed in the pattern of apartments , the amar sagar haveli is a five story high haveli adorned with beautiful painted murals .
the original plans for the houses of parliament can be seen at sir john sloane 's museum .
perhaps no other country has more to offer the visitor than peru : panoramic mountain ranges , vast deserts , beautiful beaches and tropical jungle .
the extensive ruins of his capital city parihaspur , speak of his activities in the field of art and architecture .
gandhinagar is the capital city of gujarat and it is famous for the akshardham temple which has been built in the memory of lord swaminarayan .
corbett national park corbett is a haven for tigers as well as its prey , which include four kinds of deer , wild boar and some lesser-known animals .
in front of the main entrance is a platform , which is popular for use as a spot for taking photographs .
it is a major tourist attraction and centers upon the piazza which was originally designed by inigo jones in the 1630s .
national rail museum is unique in its collection of rail engines and locomotives .
the great mauryan emperor ashoka is recorded to have ruled kashmir , and kalhan rightly mentions that the king was a follower of buddhism .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
nearest railhead is silchar ( assam ) , which is 180 km .
sanch s great stupa , the oldest stone structure in india , the stupa has magnificently carved gateways or toranas .
the chail wild life sanctuary is another showpiece in the itinerary of wares which chail , a royal hill station in india has to offer to its connoisseurs .
dedicatory inscription of the lighthouse .
the architectural splendor of the mausoleums , the fort and the palaces is a vivid remainder of the capital in the 16th and early 17th centuries .
hundreds of small shops , very good restaurants and smashing pubs add yet more allure .
you learn that the long-haired camel with hair on its ears is the bikaner variety , famed for its strength .
the gleaming white domes , pillars and archways resemble the architectural pattern of mysore 's old palaces .
natural walks along the river are a real treat and for adventure lovers rock climbing can be arranged .
this house has a lovely prayer hall and a huge library that contains the choicest of books .
a 500 mts long ski lift carries skiers back to the slope top , thus saving them the trouble and time to bridge up wearing long skis .
dalhousie 's natural beauty , invigorating air , warm sunshine and quiet surrounding add enchantment to its open and colorful valleys , level walks and treks amidst the dense forests .
this is the fourth london bridge to span the river at this point .
the city of udaipur is a lovely land around the azure water lakes hemmed in by the lush hills of the aravalis .
anyone who has lived here can never be happy anywhere else in the world .
the assimilation of different styles has given the buildings within the fort a distinctive look .
rafting the wild rapids below the falls was the first innovation more than ten years ago .
this is perhaps the only known find of such a settlement in india .
allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city .
aurangzeb chose khuldabad as his final resting place because the mausoleum of sayeed zain-ud-din , a muslim holy man lies next door .
the tour guide , india travel destination offers a series of package tours to the enthusiasts to undertake adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference .
a spell on a houseboat on dal lake has always been one of india 's real treats and kashmir also offers some delightful trekking opportunities and unsurpassed scenery .
the roads are reasonably good and driving on them is quite pleasant , particularly if you have a driver .
the great mughal emperor babar laid out this earliest example of a mughal garden .
a charming museum can be found on craven hill n the london toy & model museum which houses a vast collection of children s toys .
ram raja temple , with soaring spires , an unusual temple that was once a palace , here lord rama is worshipped as king .
the exquisitely carved wooden mansions are beautiful examples of the craftsmanship of the time .
it is also an excellent base to explore the interiors of kerala , the southernmost region of india , and from kochi , the lakshadweep islands .
if you donate a few coins to the attendant , he will lay them as offerings on the graves .
broadly , the entire population may be divided into three cultural groups based on their socio-politico-religious affinities .
surat is known for its textiles , zari work , and diamond cutting and polishing industry .
for the years that followed , the temple attracted visitors and worshippers from all over the world .
the bare minimum is just under $ 18 a day while a top end holiday could blow through the roof .
the astronomical instruments at the jantar mantar were meant to determine the exact position of longitudes , the equator and the latitudes .
it was vasumitra and nagarjuna who gave shape and form to this new school of thought .
a magnificent royal palace and the hunting lodge built by maharaja vinay singh in 1845 a.d. for his queen shila stands overlooking the lake .
after the abolition of slavery in 1834 , the plantation owners imported laborers from india .
ellora caves encompass 34 rocks cut shrines representing buddhist , hindu and jain art .
mysore celebrates regional , national and religious festivals with pomp like any other part of the country .
tour to chail dharamshala , at an altitude of 4000 m above sea level , it is located on spur of dhaulandhar range .
ancient yet modern , fabulously rich yet achingly poor , mumbai is india in microcosm .
taj mahal was structured in persian style combined with carvings of artisans called from afghanistan and the garden designers from kashmir .
most of the tribes in arunachal pradesh tend to follow the techniques of jhumming , shifting agriculture and terrace farming in order to grow crops and survive .
the word mumbai is derived from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisherfolk , the oldest inhabitants of mumbai .
india travel destinations offers you details of a number of historical monuments in the different states of india .
ranthambor national park is included under the project tiger reserves of the world and is more popular for its tiger population .
consecrated by the dalai lama , the buddhist temple , a beautiful yellow roofed shrine reflects the extensive tibetan influence and provides good views of itanagar and the surrounding countryside .
the people in the bangalore city are warm , hospitable and friendly .
after shah jahan built red fort the attention of administration shifted to gorgeous palaces of the fort .
there 's so much you can do , study temple and churches , stroll through whispering coconut groves .
the jain temple , built in white marble , is dedicated to adinath , the first apostle of the jains .
by 1828 , there were some 25 european houses , not to mention churches and the houses of immigrants from the plains .
several championship rallies are held in india every year .
the most ancient of the holy abodes is the vimal vashi temple , which is dedicated to the first tirthankar , constructed by vimal shah , a gujrati merchant .
the city of bassein was at its architectural best in 1534 , with one cathedral , five convents and 13 churches .
as per writing of padam puran as the sun is amongst the moon and the moon amongst the stars , likewise prayag is best amongst all places of pilgrimage .
the pagoda like tazia tower rises from the badal mahal ( palace of clouds ) , each storey of this five-tiered tower has a beautifully carved balcony .
erected in the middle of ram niwas garden , albert hall was built in 1876 to mark the visit of prince of wales .
the present building was built , for the most part , after the great fire of london in .
in bomdila tawang and the nearby buddhist monastery , which is the largest in india are places worth a visit .
complementing the man made perfection of the khajuraho temples is the dramatic scenic splendor of panna national park , 32 km away .
ooty is well connected by good roads .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the taj , enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
all in all , bangalore is a lovely city to visit .
mehrangarh fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city .
if you are traveling to allahabad in summer , light cottons are sufficient .
on the other side is green park and past royal residences , lancaster house , marlborough house , spencer house and st james 's palace .
in ad 956 , an earthquake shook alexandria , and caused little damage to the lighthouse .
gundicha is also the name of the king indradyumna , who originally established the temple of jagannatha .
alappuzha is also famous for its boat races , houseboat holidays , beaches , marine products and coir industry .
an important part of rajasthan tour , camel safari gives an inner view of the traditional and colorful rajasthan .
meghalaya is one of the most picturesque states of india , offering a spectrum of sylvan surroundings , rich cultural heritage , misty heights , breathtakingly beautiful waterfalls , luxurious vegetation , flora and fauna .
state museum is , a representative collection of himachal pradesh 's rich heritage exhibits which include archeological artifacts , carvings , paintings and sculptures .
an ideal destination to explore the rustic charm of rajasthan , khimsar is famous for its fort .
singda is a hill resort on the hills , 16 kms. from imphal to the west .
however , just 15 years after it was established , the court had to be moved out of fatehpur sikri because of acute shortage of water .
inside the taj mahal the cenotaph of mumtaz mahal stands in the centre of the marble screen , it has inscribed on it in persian with texts from the koran .
balighai1 is just 8 kms away from the crowds of puri , on the mouth of river nuanai , balighai has excellent beach and the sea turtle research center .
chamba has preserved the ancient culture and heritage and chamba is known for the elegence of its temples and handicrafts .
of the six vanished wonders , the lighthouse of alexandria was the last to disappear .
however , itanagar can be called as mini india , as people from all over the country , live here in harmony .
bishnupur is famous for its conical roofed temple , dedicated to lord krishna .
victoria encompasses a large area and is a draw for a huge number of tourists perhaps because of the excellent conations to the rest of the uk .
modelled on the taj mahal , aurangabad 's mughal tomb garden was built by prince azam khan in memory of his mother , begum rabia daurani .
also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , it is a marshy area , which was originally built as a hunting retreat of the kings of bharatpur .
kangra is a small town and was the capital of the erstwhile rulers of the chand dynasty .
the sun temple konark is built by raja narsimhadeva of the ganga dynasty , in the 13th century ad , the temple is the culmination of orissan temple architecture .
the jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside rajasthan .
bangalore has some beautiful temples .
the french first moved in a century later .
the well known places of tourism are chowpathy beach , juhu beach , elephanta caves , good markets like crawford and chor bazaar are found here .
between 1761 and 1799 , hyder ali along with his son tippu sultan ruled the state .
these were built by maharaja jai singh and are actually an observatory .
tippu was a great scholar and lover of literature .
on one side is st james 's park , leading to the horse guard 's parade ground .
ahmedabad was named after the sultan ahmed shah , who built the city in 1411 .
king george v , who as prince of wales , laid the foundation stone of this museum in 1905 .
the only surviving photograph ( see picture ) presents a somewhat portly person , who seems both sad and sullen .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
in the winters , temperatures may touch a low of 5 celsius .
rains from june to september often disrupt life and vital communications .
shivaganga is 50 kms from the city center is a hill which provides a breath-taking view of the the nearby areas .
this variety is reflected in the food , architecture , music and culture of brazil .
in australia , hundreds of kilometers away from the site , the explosion was heard .
for centuries , the rohtang pass has been the gateway for trading routes to lahaul , ladakh and central asia .
over 300 species of birds are found here ( keoladeo ghana national park ) and raised paths , camouflaged by babul trees and undergrowth make viewing easy .
indian airlines connects imphal with calcutta , dimapur , silchar , guwahati and delhi .
280 , 000 ' city gents ' , stockbrokers , traders and shopkeepers pile into the city every weekday morning , and pile out again every evening .
the temple is dedicated to the goddess of prosperity and good fortune .
it is suggested one walk around the outside of the tomb , before retrieving your shoes , to appreciate it from all sides .
historically , haryana goes back to mahabharata times , for it was here , at kurukshetra , that the war was fought .
visitors may drive across the bridge and through howrah , the industrial extension of calcutta or take ferry from chandpal or tekta ghats to the gardens .
in charles dickens ' pickwick papers the guildhall is the setting for the court case of bardell vs pickwick .
the bridge and the surrounding area get their name from an order of dominican monks who had a monastery here .
there are many attractions available in the sirmaur .
in addition , you can eat and relax in the orangery built for queen anne .
this was home to the late diana princess of wales and is the current residence of the queen 's sister , princess margaret .
of all the rivers , ganga is the most beautiful river .
one of the more well known rallies , till about a few years back , was the himalayan car rally , which has since been discontinued .
a group of archaeologists surveyed the area of the southern palace and reconstructed the vaulted building as the hanging gardens .
this estimate has been made keeping in mind urban india .
indian airlines connect chandigarh with delhi , jammu , srinagar and leh .
then , the district is host to periyar river , which flows through two massive rocks in the region , which again have mythological connotations attached to them .
this palace was a hotel for some time and currently this is crumbling without any maintenance , visitors are not allowed to this palace .
the most imposing excavation is , without doubt that of the magnificent kailasa temple ( cave 16 ) , which is the single largest monolithic structure in the world .
the hesaraghatta lake , a man-made lake , near the village is also a popular tourist spot .
the country is geographically divided into the amazon , the highlands , the coast , and the gal pagos islands .
the festivities commence with a spectacular procession inspired by mughal splendor .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
a delicately carved trelliswork marble screen encloses them the empress tomb , which is directly under the dome , has the 99 names of allah inscribed on it .
visit the 450 year old dhoongri temple dedicated to goddess harimba with its exquisite and unique carvings , tibetan monastery , the majestic beas river and jagatsukh ancient capital of manali .
this is also called as summer palace .
manvar desert is best for the outdoor adventures and excitement .
the letter he wrote from the neilgherry hills to thomas munro , who went on to become governor of madras , is ecstatic .
founded in the sixth century bc by the kings of the first persian empire ( the achaemenids ) , persepolis is located 60 km northeast of shiraz in iran .
hawa mahal was built by maharaja sawai pratap singh in 1799 ad and lal chand usta was the architect .
chandigarh , the terminus of northern railway , is connected with mumbai , delhi , kalka and other major cities in india .
since early historic ages , violent volcanic activity has been known to exist in the region .
ahmedabads international terminus and 45 star hotels have money changing bureaus .
there is beauty and intelligence , the exotic and the mundane ; there are ayurvedic massages that elicit equal amounts of pain and pleasure , beaches and lagoons with the best part being the preservation of it all way nature meant it to be .
annual festival arthunkal perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810 , the church is dedicated to st george .
chamundi hills is 1150m hill that is named after goddess durga , the consort of lord shiva , who vanquished the demon mahishasura .
ranthambore wild life park is among the few sights in the world where the tiger regime is supreme .
a few kilometers from manali is the rohtang pass , a place known for the divergent landscapes .
apart from the regular sections the museum has regular exhibition on different themes .
the bulky animal meves around with surprising speed and poise .
gradually europeans started setting up business and trade establishments , the moneyed class taking interest in banking and usury .
about 38 km from port blair , this havelock island boasts of virgin beaches , and an unpolluted environment .
the various buildings within this sprawling fort complex represent the assimilation of different cultures , which was the mark of the mughal period .
but it 's still a great place to clamber around , look out at the sea and snap pictures of the shoreline .
the city being an important cantonment during the british raj has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture .
rani sipri mosque built in 1514 by a queen of mehmud shah begda .
alwar is nested between clusters of small hills of the aravalli range .
due to their awesome height and spread , garhwal and kumaon , like other areas in the himalayas , offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing , round the year .
the trek from osla to harkidoon , is through terraced mountain fields , sylvan meadow sand conifer forests .
one of the loveliest spot in the himalayas , the kulu valley is known as the valley of gods , evidence of this is the numerous temples .
the descent in to betalghat is equally dramatic .
elections in 1970 brought unidad popular , led by the marxist dr salvador allende , to power .
since the disappearance of krakatau , smaller eruptions have been observed .
the eruption formed three islands ( rakata , panjang , and sertung ) , and caused a 7 km long caldera ( cavity ) to form underneath rakata .
the victoria & albert museum has around 7 miles of corridors and houses a fascinating mix of collections from dresses to church pulpits .
arunachal pradesh is the land of the dawn lit mountains is one of the most pristine areas in india .
amidst the tranquility of the splendidly panoramic environs of purana qila , delhi 's historic and legendary past come to life .
if you wish to travel by air the nearest airport from periyar are at kochi ( kochin ) or madurai in tamil nadu .
bengal tiger is the fastest running animal .
during the course of construction , provisions were made to repatriate the nubian inhabitants , and , in a multi-national effort , to relocate the great temple of abu simbel .
as a city it continues to maintain the best of south indian traditions .
indian travel destinations too opens up dalhousie the historical hill station in india to a veritable mix of tourists through its tours to dalhousie .
taj is the pride of india .
each court contains a public gallery open to anyone ( aged 14 or over ) , interested in watching justice in action , and it is well worth a visit .
from kurukshetra came the kernel of hindu belief and doctrine the message of the gita , which lord krishna gave to a doubt-ridden arjuna on the battlefield .
some of the commonly visited historical monuments in gwalior , india are the gwalior fort , the sanchi stupas , udayagiri caves , teli ka mandir and tansen 's tomb .
marve , the closest and the quietest are a lovely little fishing village .
janki kund is an unusual cave over the mandakini , said to be the place where sita bathed .
india is a peninsular surrounded by water on three sides namely the indian ocean , bay of bengal and arabian sea .
the highest point in darjeeling , our idyllic honeymoon destination in india is , tiger hill , which is 11km away from darjeeling and next door to ghoom .
allahabad one of the oldest cities of india and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the kumbh and ardh kumbh melas held every twelve and six years respectively .
much of victoria is pretty shabby however , which is surprising considering its proximity to buckingham palace .
october to february is considered to be the best period to visit jaisalmer .
celebration of the gher ghoomer festival before the chamunda devi temple has been a traditional of the local tribes for the last six centuries .
she died in 1003 a. d. and left the throne of kashmir to her family in undisputed succession .
the modhera temple , built by the solanki kins in 1025 ad was dedicated to sury-the sun god .
each of the major tribes has its own unique designs and colors , warm and colorful naga shawls , hand woven shoulder bags , decorative spears , table mats , wood carvings and bamboo works make magnificent souvenirs .
kotagiri is shielded by the doddabetta ranges which receive much of its rain from north west monsoon .
the distinctive feature of the muchchal mahavira temple is the statue of lord mahavira with a moustache .
foreigners however are served alcoholic drinks at some hotels upon showing their passports .
for two hundred years , it was the capital of a muslim dynasty that ruled over a populace that was predominantly hindu .
raj ghat is the serene memorial of mahatma gandhi on the banks of yamuna .
the upper reaches of the river beas in the kullu valley are also great for this sport .
besides the sea , sand and the sun , a typical kerala village with paddy fields and coconut groves nearby completes the idyllic picture that the beach paints .
the ultimate goal of the azad hind fauz during the freedom struggle was to capture delhi and established swaraj .
as a result marylebone is chic , subtle , charming and attractive n with the added bonus that it 's slap bang in the middle of the largest city in europe .
habitat the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
these are some of the wares that mount abu as a hill station in india has to offer to its visitors .
gulmarg boasts of the highest golf course in the world .
nandi hills is a hill resort near bangalore whose solitude has not been tampered by commercialization .
the city of jaipur is capital to the northern indian state of rajasthan famous for its colorful culture , forts , palaces and lakes .
there is a strong undercurrent and it is best not to swim out to sea unless you are a proficient swimmer .
jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture , traditional jodhpuri handicrafts , dye textiles , leather shoes , antiques , embroidered shoes carpets , tie & dye sarees , silver jewellery , local handicrafts & textiles , lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from jodhpur .
ironically , verdi did not complete the work in time and ` ` aida ` ` premiered at the cairo opera a year later .
special care was taken to maintain the garden , its waterworks as members of the royal family frequented it and stayed in the guesthouse ( mehmankhana ) near it .
the andaman and nicobar islands were shrouded in mystery for centuries because of their inaccessibility .
the house and the fabulous landscaped grounds are free to visit .
the cochin remained a portuguese possession until the dutch conquered it in 1663 .
apart from the geological , zoological , botanical and anthropological galleries , there are outstanding archaeological exhibits .
indian museum , popularly known as jadu ghar ( magic house ) , this is the premier national collection in the subcontinent .
journalist emile goudeau describes the spectacle visiting the construction site at the beginning of 1889 .
jakhu hill looms over shimla town and is the geographical nucleus .
the baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot .
with a varied terrain of wooded hills , it offers abundant opportunities of sighting a variety of wildlife .
boat cruise on pichola lake 4 km long and 3 km broad , surrounded by splendid hills , palaces , temples , bathing ghats and embankments .
his ministers were gorgeously dressed , wore earrings and head dresses , previously reserved for the members of ruling families only .
the famous ooty lake that serpentine stretch of water that has deteriorated in to a sewer-was sullivan s creation too .
in winter , light woolens would be required as the evenings get chilly .
trevor 's tank is popular for bird watching with various species of birds like pigeons , peacocks and partridges .
the most popular stretch for river rafting is on the ganges , near rishikesh in uttaranchal .
the delhi zoo is located near the purana qila on the delhi-mathura road .
there were 127 columns in total , aligned orthogonally over the whole platform area , except for the central cella or house of the goddess .
presently man mahal is covered to rtdc sarvour tourist bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers .
strangely , despite being catholic , the head of the order is the queen ( who is also supreme head of the church of england .
though the revolt did not reach its desired conclusion , delhi became a thorn in the eyes of the british .
the dargah of the sufi saint , who is believed to have blessed akbar with a son , is also within the fort .
the chequered history of allahabad with its religious , cultural and historical ethos also gave rise to several renowned scholars , poets , writers , thinkers , statesmen and leaders .
the huge , carved doors of the cabinet room are made of pure sandalwood .
surrounding the market are hundreds of shops , bars and restaurants which make the area buzz with vitality .
great piles of straw and dung used to build signal fires have been found during excavations .
from kumarghat you can take a bus to agartala .
ranthambore national park has a congenial habitat for the stately sambar , the largest of all asiatic deer .
uribe immediately declared a partial state of emergency , allowing him to impose security measures by decree .
the gwalior fort is about 1000 years old and is perhaps one of the most imposing monuments in the gwalior city .
the camel festival is held in the month of january every year and is organized by the department of tourism , art & culture , of rajasthan .
ulsoor lake is an ideal place for sightseeing , boating and shopping .
ranthambhore also facilitates jeep safari to explore the unexplored treasures of the forest , as it is the best means to explore the royal tiger .
the building is illuminated on sunday evenings .
hearing the suffering of the people , a great saint of our country , kashyap by name , came to the rescue of the people here .
the kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees .
from the top of the chanmundi hill one can have a panoramic view of mysore .
glorious 18th and 19th century buildings abound housing many artistic and literary names just as they have done through the centuries .
the marwar festival is held every year in memory of the heroes of rajasthan .
the site was chosen near the capital , agra on the southwest bank of the river yamuna .
one needs prior permission form the secretary to visit the palace .
and the rapids of snow-fed rivers are ideal for white water rafting .
there are 2 sailings in a month each from calcutta and madras to port blair & vice versa .
extending in a linear arrangement , the 34 caves contain buddhist chaityas , or halls of worship , and viharas , or monasteries , hindu and jain temples .
hyderabad has a rich cultural heritage , which encloses within itself an amalgam of various religious and cultural communities .
jaipur , on western railway 's meter gauge and broad gauge network , is very well connected with train services from many parts of the country .
the tourist complex ( phone 05619 2490 ) offers clean and affordable accommodation with reasonable food .
his tenure ended with another military take-over. .
the international tech park is meticulously designed and builtd to suit the requirements of international hi-tech companies in the field of information technology , software development , electronics , telecommunication , research and development , financial services and other non-polluting hi-tech industries .
a fascinating area just to the north of the city which is an alluring mix of scruffy old character and trendy new vibrancy .
the birla planetarium is also quite a crowd-puller. .
himalayas are the world 's top-notch mountain chain crowning with snow-capped peaks of 26 , 000 feet in height .
ellora known as verul in ancient times , it has continuously attracted pilgrims through the centuries .
hawa mahal jaipur the jantar mantar is an astronomical observatory located at jaipur , india was constructed by maharaja sawai jai singh ii in the year 1716 .
he has made his name immortal by founding the city of praverseinpura ( modern city of srinagar ) , the summer capital of the state at present .
it is probably the ugliest building in london , although the new british library may be another contender for the title .
a visit to kolhapur was not complete without a trip to this ordinary temple .
it also broke a taboo , culminating in court decisions which stripped him of his immunity from prosecution although the former ruler has not been prosecuted yet .
long serpentine boats rowed in rhythmic frenzy by multiple sets of shining able bodied malayali men compete for this prized trophy .
the fort also has miran saheb ki dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter .
trekking is an option open only to the serious naturalist .
the industrial units , some 1700 of them in and around agra , have been in the eye of a storm in recent times .
the most notable place of worship in the district of bilaspur is the temple of shri naina devi ji .
in delhi one can see , the mingling of many cultures , languages , tradition and peoples into one united nation .
dhauli hill is on the bank of the river daya , about 8 kms south of bhubaneshwar .
in 1998 , pinochet officially retired and chile has begun to come to terms with his legacy .
the maiden name of mumtaz mahal was arjumand banu begum , prince khurram had been married twice before he met and married mumtaz mahal .
all this combined with rich historical and archaeological past and enduring indigenous cultures .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam .
the temple housed many works of art , including four ancient bronze statues of amazons sculpted by the finest artists at the time .
bridges , and in particular railway bridges , were his favorite field of work , but he also won renown for his metal structural work and industrial installations .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
india has preserved vast tracts of forests and habitats in its 80 national parks and 441 wildlife sanctuaries .
the ripples formed by the dunes create a perfect location for the photographers to shoot .
the city has a natural harbor and a beach stretching endlessly into the horizon , against a backdrop of low hills and hidden creeks .
this place was used for staying of royal family until the new palace was built and it was used for entertainment afterwards .
later the tower was also celebrated by le douanier rousseau , signac , bonnard , utrillo , gromaire , vuillard , dufy and chagall .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
konkan railway trains from cst stop at pen , 28 km from alibag , from where you can take a bus , auto rickshaw or taxi .
delhi has seen the death of many empires and resisted bloody attempts to eliminate her .
camping sites provide all the magic of the jungle , the nocturnal sounds , bright lit skies and tales around a crackling camp fire , all make a heady cocktail .
4 km away is the built in bengali hut style architecture in 1501 , a ` shaktipeeth ( power of the female goddess .
starting at rishikesh , this 10 day long trek , passes through pipalkoti , kalpeshwar , bansi narain , godiyala , rudranath , and sagar , and ends at gopeshwar .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
it is rare to come across a place that welcomes the 21st century with an ' adaab ' .
sprawling on the banks of the river yamuna , delhi , bahai temple the capital of india , typifies the soul of the country .
however , the windfall was largely squandered and ecuador has suffered persistent economic difficulties ever since .
changing money anywhere in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
sekta mound , locally known as the ` ` sekta kei ` ` is a protected archaeological site , located at sekta village , about 16 kms from imphal .
apart from its jain temples gujarat s major attraction include the last asian lions , in the gir forest and the fascination indo-saracenic architecture of ahmedabad .
palace on wheels is a journey worthy of kings .
as the britishers shifted their capital from calcutta to delhi , all the activities during the freedom struggle were directed towards delhi .
inside , the original ceilings had frescoes in blue and gold .
itmaduddaulah is the tomb of mirza ghyas beg , a persian who had obtained service in akbar court .
the palace of nana sahib was reduced to rubble by the british in 1857 and the only traces remaining of it are some large well heads and broken palace walls .
in karnataka there are chamundi hills .
it culminated in 1889 with the eiffel tower .
although it is no longer the capital of gujarat , ahmedabad remains the second largest industrial city in western india .
khajjiar is a modest grass-covered meadow located in the enchanting valley of chamba .
the foundation of the temple was rectangular in form , similar to most temples at the time .
in the heart of northern india watered by the two sacred rivers of ganga and yamuna lies the city of allahabad .
instances from jewish history and the hardship the jews underwent are depicted through paintings .
visitors can keep themselves busy by going to the tribal villages , seeing desert wild life , witnessing the craft of local craftsman .
more recently the remains of a roman amphitheatre were discovered here during redevelopment work in 1987 .
jaigarh fort s impressive water supply and storage system as well as the museum are worth seeing .
shikara is a gondola type light rowing boat .
the town is blessed with exotic natural beauty and is famous for its handicrafts .
the mehfil khana or the main hall of the dargah is the place where qawwalis are sung throughout the year .
the statues were carved by four greek sculptors : bryaxis , leochares , scopas , and timotheus , each responsible for one side .
the state of jammu and kashmir is a region of widely varying people and geography .
offering camel , jeep , and horse safaris , accommodation in tents .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
the site india travel destinations gives details of tours to historical monuments in different parts of india .
the historic buland darwaza , which is 85 feet high , was constructed by sultan ghayasuddin of mandu .
he was granted a ` ` firman ` ` or decree by the khedive said of egypt to run the canal for 99 years after completion .
today yamuna flows almost a kilometer away from the fort and the moat has dried up .
kangra one of himachal 's beautiful valleys , rolls down the southern edge of the magnificent dhauladhar range in gentle slopes covered with forests of pine , orchards , green tea gardens and terraced fields .
while in jaisalmer , it is difficult to resist the charm of a camel safari , the most interesting way to explore the desert around .
this region acquired an independent political status in january 20 , 1972 when it was declared as a union territory under the name of arunachal pradesh .
it is believed that the gate of all nations and the throne hall were used in new year 's celebrations when delegates presented the annual tribute to the persian king .
the power station 's other claim to fame is that it appeared on the front cover of the pink floyd album ` ` animals ` ` with a pig flying overhead .
during the spring seasons of february and march , when the garden is in full bloom people are allowed inside .
khajuraho is connected by regular bus services with mahoba , harpalpur , satna , jhansi , gwalior , agra , jabalpur & bhopal .
this massive and imposing architectural wonder is a must visit during your tours to historical monuments in jaipur , india .
thadlaskein basically a lake , it is a popular picnic spot .
the tourist entry is through the amar singh gate , which was used by general lake and his army to capture the fort .
gir national park is also home to one of the largest leopard populations in any park in india .
balance also determines the value of strength by how much energy you spend actually climbing sheer rock faces , ideal for rock climbing , can be found in many areas .
a walk into the forest with them is an experience into itself , as you come to learn about their customs , ethnicity and legends .
the pieces were hauled up by steam cranes , which themselves climbed up the tower as they went along using the runners to be used for the tower 's lifts .
regular luxury buses are available round the clock and special trains like the shatabadi express and intercity express .
it marks the site where mahatma gandhi was cremated after his assassination .
constructed with stone and marble , jantar mantar s complex instruments whose setting and shapes are precisely and scientifically designed represent the high points of medieval indian astronomy .
it is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments .
guwahati is the commercial capital of the north east .
one can enjoy boating on the shimmering blue waters and in leisure one can enjoy fishing .
the slush becomes all pervasive , and so do the green and the bugs .
first of all he set himself to finding a practical application for the tower , which had only been built to stand for twenty years .
majestic sand dunes in the thar desert is a unique offering of rajasthan that is away from the rajasthan colorful culture , wildlife , historical monuments , forts , gardens and lakes .
the picturesque kangra valley has several spots that offer mahaseer river carp .
mandu , originally the capital of the hindu parmar kings in the 13th century which was later captured by the sultans of malwa .
gaitore is the final resting place of the maharajas of jaipur and is located just off the jaipur amber road .
fatehpur sikri a city of yesteryear today lost in the mists of time .
shopping can be both an exciting as well as taxing experience in agra .
the first television trials to use the tower date back to 1921 , and the first regular broadcasts started in 1935 .
the commons introduces new legislation but the lords acts as a kind of quality control department and debates the issues again , before they are made law .
every year bharatpur waits with bated breath for the arrival of the siberian cranes .
situated on the banks of the ganga , bithoor is of considerable historical and religious importance .
but as reverend philip mulley suggests , his real legacy goes well beyond a building that endures here or a crumbling grave that survives there .
the temples in this hill station in india boast of immense architectural beauty and finesse among all other hill stations in india .
mathura , a quiet town on the river yamuna was transformed into a place of faith after lord krishna was born here .
as a much sought after honeymoon destination in india , darjeeling is home to a multifarious variety of scenic places and natural beauty .
a flower show along with an exhibition of rare plant species is held every year in the month of may at botanical garden .
the colonnade supported a pyramid roof which was in turn decorated with statues .
later on col james edward corbett became a visionary conservationist and author .
a few of the most important kashmir missionaries were kumarjiva , yasa , vima laksha , sanghbuti , gautam sangha , buddviyasa , buddhijiva , gunavarman , dharamputra and shyama bhata .
another 20 kms drive from khanvel is dudhni where the large waterfront of river damanganga provides breathtaking view of the water spread of madhuban dam .
on the east bank of the river euphrates , about 50 km south of baghdad , iraq .
to construct a tomb in one s lifetime was a tartary custom which the mughals followed religiously .
the famous bikaneri bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in bikaner .
the total height of the building including the foundation base was about 117 m ( 384 ft ) , equivalent to a 40-story modern building .
the brick and granite work was enlarged and sophisticated designs were added .
despite being relatively central , fulham is also the home to two professional football clubs n fulham and chelsea .
indian airlines and jet airways have convenient connections to cochin from delhi , mumbai as well as other important south indian cities .
the temple itself is dedicated to shiva and is a natural cave caved out of a monolithic stone .
built by maharana kumbha in the 15th century , the fort extends over 12 km and encloses many temples , gardens and palaces .
when the colossus was finished , it stood about 33 m ( 110 ft ) high .
the following countries all have their own sections in the world travel guide .
the present splendid dome over the mazar was constructed by emperor shahjahan , who also constructed the jama masjid in the year 1638 .
the earliest reference to delhi as a settlement is made in the hindu epic , mahabharata , which states that the pandavas founded a city called indraprastha .
thakur onkar singh , 17th direct descendant of prince karamasi , the current owner and chief added a regal wing in the 1940`s for himself .
when you stand on this rock and face the east , the waves of the bay of bengal lap your feet .
sisodiya rani-ka-bagh was built by sawai jai singh ii for his sisodiya queen .
panhala is the only fort in maharashtra where you can roam within its walls in your vehicle .
at ajanta , the paintings were done on dry wall .
the aurangabad caves are buddhist and are divided into two groups by the archaeological survey of india as the western and eastern caves .
it is a veritable treasure house of buddhist sculptures .
since cut flowers are in great demand in foreign countries , floriculture should find a prominent place in schemes to augment the income of cultivators .
also called the ` ` manchester of the east ` ` , today , ahmedabad is one of the most highly industrialized cities of india .
this palace is built around a place called ` ` thotti ` ` which is a large open space to the east of round floor there is huge elephant door .
the magnificent temple of zeus was designed by the architect libon and was built around 450 bc .
treks up to 4900 mts need no permission , and can be undertaken on tourist visas .
recent studies suggest that it was erected either on the eastern promontory of the mandraki harbor , or even further inland .
lallgarh palace was the most completely integrated example of indo-saracenic architecture .
better known as flora fountain after the beautiful stone fountain at its centre , hutatma chowk is the established business centre of mumbai .
the lamps are cooled to prevent overheating and a heating system is activated when the temperatures drop below zero centigrade whilst the lights are off .
indeed , the chandela temples form the centre of khajuraho with its myriad graceful forms that continue to evoke shock , surprise , awe and admiration among thousand other feelings .
marx is buried in the eastern side .
mumbai is the headquarters of the central and western railways .
the first one , made of wood , was built by the romans , following their invasion in 43ad .
for 16 centuries , the mausoleum remained in good condition until an earthquake caused some damage to the roof and colonnade .
the lalgarh palace was built by maharaja ganga singh and is situated 3 km north of bikaner city .
changing money anywhere but at accredited bureau is illegal .
arunachal pradesh is a dreamy , misty land nestled in the middle of ancient tribal lands and cultures .
this palace is now the famous cftri ( central food technology and research institute ) and is in very good condition .
entertainment is limited to cinema halls that screen hindi and bengali movies .
bombay , or mumbai as it is now called , is the commercial capital of india , a city of entrepreneurs , concrete towers , clubs and discos , cricket , bollywood and more .
if you re lucky , you might just spot a 1935 jaguar convertible of even an 1898 humbrette .
you will find many couples sitting on it with the taj mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
these rock cut sites are dated to the 8 th or 9 th centuries .
ajmer was also favorite residence for the great mughals .
a network of rivers runs through the state , with a wide variety of fresh water fish like mahaseer , hilsa , saul , rohu , mirgal , katla and trout .
build in south indian style the temple complex is spread over a large area with beautiful lawns and gardens .
it is for no small reason that kullu manali has earned the sobriquet of , ` ` valley of gods .
manali is one of the most beautiful and popular hill stations known for lush and fresh scenic beauty .
this portrayal of sensuality and erotica , while awing some and shocking others , not once is vulgar .
as the slopes have been devoted to tea , vegetables have come to be cultivated in low-lying areas and swamps .
one of the finest examples of high victorial gothic architecture , it is the headquarters of the central railways and is one of the finest railway stations in the world .
the palace is built in 36 acres surrounded by gardens .
the tropical state of orissa lies along the eastern seaboard of india , south of bengal .
the rabindra gallery contains paintings and manuscripts of the great man of letters .
greek gods and mythical figures also adorned the scene : apollo , artemis , and niobe 's children .
chandni chowk is located opposite the red fort .
by road if you are driving around india , the city is extremely well connected from all directions .
designed by lt samuel russel , the british residency of hyderabad was built in 1806 and is one of the best examples of european architecture in india .
the sewa or the self employed women 's association offers hand printed fabrics and other textiles made by women s cooperatives .
three stocks of populaces / tribes to be more precise inhabit arunachal pradesh , a prominent hill station in india .
the old delhi or the walled city served as the capital for many emperors .
the location of fatehpur sikri was also appropriate for discussions and deliberations that the emperor had with religious leaders , statesmen , writers and philosophers .
the flower show is the pride of the festival .
leather , wool and silk carpets , stone sculptures , jewellery and inlay work are the major revenue earners .
thenzawl is a picturesque hill station and also worth a visit .
on all the ten days , the mysore palace is illuminated and renowned musicians of the state and outside give performances in front of the palace .
by the time the spanish arrived in the late15th century , the surinen ( the original inhabitants of surinam ) had been driven out by other amerindian groups .
in 1937 , andr granet added colored lighting to the latticework handrails for the international exposition of arts and techniques .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
situated on the banks of the river yamuna , the taj mahal stands at the northern end of formal gardens .
it is located on a 17km stretch of the coramandel coast .
but those among them which can be identified justly by their extant ruins , the great fame which lalitaditya enjoyed as a builder .
the third week of march every year , aurangabad dons the mantle of host and gears up for an ellora festival of music and dance .
nizam-ud-din shrine - the tomb of the famous sufi saint nizam-ud-din auliya is built on the way from humayun 's tomb .
they offer what the real travelers is looking for vast open spaces , undisturbed solitude and the prospect to do something really different .
prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in brahmanical ( vedic ) and buddhist literatures .
the birth place of lord krishna , ` ` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations ` ` - mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
known for their fine architecture , elegant speech and intellectual pursuits , they were the ancestors of the famous aztecs .
on your tour to periyar you can see the rich bird life including the giant hornbill , cormorant , darter , osprey , and racket-tailed drongo .
haldeghati is the place where the famous battle between rana pratap and the massive forces of the mughal emperor akbar was fought in 1576 ad .
mandawa castle , one of the finest castles of rajasthan is now a beautiful hotel .
just 125 kms along the coastline from chorwad lays ahmedpur mandvi , unusual beach resort designed as a traditional ethnic saurashtrian village .
in 1519 , a spaniard named hernan cortes arrived from cuba with a 550-strong crew .
ahmedabad offers a culinary experience par excellence to first time visitors at the open-air village restaurant outside the city .
gujarat can really boast of a rich variety of wild and rare fauna .
dutch palace , also known as the mattancherry palace , was built by the poruguese and presented to the cochin raja in 1555 a.d. .
over the years , it fell again into disrepair , and was completely abandoned upon the discovery of the trade route around africa .
shimla airport is 23 kms from the city and is served by indian airlines flights during the summer months .
agra is well connected by air with khajuraho , varanasi , and delhi .
the bijli mahadev temple is an important tourist site that you must visit during your historical tours to kullu in himachal pradesh , india .
your journey promises joy , serenity and a deeper understanding of one of the greatest thinkers of india .
when st paul visited ephesus to preach christianity in the first century ad , he was confronted by the artemis ' cult who had no plans to abandon their goddess .
located about 55 km by road from agra on the jaipur highway , the town of bharatpur is an eastern gateway to rajasthan .
one of the most challenging motor rallies is the himalayan car rally .
even in their present state of decay , they command admiration both by their imposing dimensions , and by the beauty of their architectural design and decoration .
the oriyas , 25 % of whom are indigenous tribal peoples , are particularly friendly and hospitable .
it is the home of the great indian one horned rhinoceros ( unicornis ) .
chandni chowk was the pulse of mughal delhi s commercial life and was designed by jahanara begum , the favourite daughter of shah jahan in 1648 .
along with the modern day pubs , discos and hangouts , one can still see remnants of the older bangalore .
ajanta finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
loktak lake & sendra island is a saucer shaped fresh water lake which attracts many species of birds .
` ` the hanging garden has plants cultivated above ground level , and the roots of the trees are embedded in an upper terrace rather than in the earth .
bassein fortified city , built by the portuguese , separates greater mumbai from the indian mainland .
shimla the summer capital of india before independence is now the capital of himachal pradesh .
on a hillock to the north is the shrine of lord dattatraya , the three heads representing brahma , vishnu and maheshwara .
jeep safari in india is on aspect of adventure tourism in india which entails an immense amount of outdoor roving on land .
the fivestoreyed palace is one of the prominent buildings in the fort .
and when the temple was again destroyed by the goths in ad 262 , the ephesians vowed to rebuild .
the chaugan is the heart and hub centre of all activities in chamba .
with the mix of people in bangalore , it is common to see christmas and ramzan celebrated with equal vigour .
the age old art of dyes and colours hold the centre of attraction .
the inexpensive eating places are in taj gang , around the taj mahal .
set like a jewel in a courtyard of pink sandstone is the finest building here , the marble tomb of salim chisti enclosed by finely carved , lacy marble screens .
mughals brought their fine arches , perfect domes and filigree culminating in the perfection of the taj mahal at agra .
they were known as the black friars because of their distinctive black habits .
on the domestic network , mumbai is connected by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines , to most major cities in india by frequent daily flights .
storks and cranes make migratory stops at the lake and the lake incidentally , has asia 's longest water channel for rowing and yachting .
the chamundeswari temple s tower is 40m high with seven storeys .
although she could not see the animal , she spotted hoof prints with three toes and believed that such an animal did exist .
other species that have their habitat in the sanctuaries are nilgai , sambar , kotri , barking deer , chausingha or four horned antelope , sloth bear , wild boar , wild dog , jackal , wolf , hyena and bison .
antarctica is not easy to access but that is part of its appeal .
one can visit these places in this order , first visit renuka then nahan and lastly paonta sahib from shimla side or the vice versa .
exotic denizens of the sylvan world add to the mystery and charm of this weird land .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking and online reservation for tours to the historical monuments in jodhpur , rajasthan , india .
jantar mantar , one of the five observatories built by maharaj jai singh , in 1718 .
the eiffel tower was recently adorned with 2 light beams capable of being seen 80 kilometers away and activated each evening when the tower lights up .
aizawl , the capital of mizoram , is perched precariously on a sharp ridge and has the atmosphere of a himalayan hill station .
the internal core was used as a shaft to lift the fuel needed for the fire .
the kullu valley begins at aut on the northern end of the gorge in the dhaula dhar , cut by the river beas at larji , above mandi .
situated in the middle of the park , the open-air theatre s unique atmosphere makes it a marvelous place to see a play .
goa is dotted with golden beaches , picturesque creeks , solitary lighthouses , ancient forts , stunning cliffs and charming fishing hamlets , many of them still remain the way nature sculpted them .
there are several decorated palaces like moti mahal , phool mahal , sheesh mahal are located inside the mehrangarh fort .
this historical monument is quite a formidable structure and is one of the most impressive architectural wonders in the jodhpur region .
the museum of archaeological survey of india is just outside the temple enclosure and houses sculptures and carvings from the ruins of the sun temple .
instead we have been left a beautifully landscaped park designed by john nash , with features including a boating lake , rock gardens , sunken gardens and rose gardens .
indian nationals need no special permits to visit andamans , however permits are required to visit nicobar islands , issued by the deputy commissioner , andamans at port blair .
a regulated agricultural system is now in place , and , in 1996 , for the first time , the water in nasser lake rose above the spill level .
the temple served as both a marketplace and a religious institution .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
cochin is also one of the finest natural harbors of the world and a major indian port .
crucial to whatever was done was the creation of a decent public transport system and the result is the docklands light railway with its speed , comfort and good value .
the suitable period for river running depends on the adequacy of water volume .
the engineer , and his expertise in calculation and construction , came to have an increasingly important role in architecture .
chandigarh , the terminus of northern railway , is connected with mumbai , delhi , kalka and other major cities in india .
an insignificant looking board bearing the name of kynance hangs from a tree and is discernible to only those tourists who have an eye for details .
agra has good rail and bus connections with major indian cities .
the government museum displays a collection of archaeological artifacts and the art gallery has a collection of the works of the noted artist of the court of mysore k. venkatappa .
discourses are conducted here under a huge banyan tree which spreads to almost 40 , 000 sq. ft. of area .
founded by sir cowasjee jehangir reddy s money , after who is named the earlier of the two structures , was designed by sir gilbert scott .
the london dungeon brings more than 2 , 000 years of gruesomely authentic history vividly back to life and death .
mumbai is the headquarters for both , western and central railways and regular train services connect mumbai with all the major towns & cities in india .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
so others argue that the site is too far from the euphrates to support the theory since the vaulted building is several hundreds of meters away .
they pay their respect to the memory of guru harkrishan , nominated as successor by the seventh guru , sri har rai .
most of the local pubs are owned by youngs , an excellent family run brewer based in nearby wandsworth and are well worth a visit .
india has something for everyone looking for adventure .
the official line though , from the head of public information at the palace of westminster , is that it 's just called ' the green .
a century ago in dickens ' day , the hall was a more focal point .
national rail museum is located in chanakya puri .
being the tallest temple ( 65 meters ) in orissa , jagannath temple is one of the most magnificent pieces of monuments of india .
57 km from agartala , 25 km from neermahal , has several temples to lord vishnu , lakes and ruins of an old palace .
in the garden city you can visit the lal bagh with a variety of old trees , fountains , lotus pools , terraces and an assortment of tropical and sub-tropical herbs .
the andaman & nicobar are a group of picturesque islands , big and small , inhabited and uninhabited , a total of 572 islands , islets and rocks lying in the south eastern part of the bay of bengal .
supplies must have always been short and chancy , particularly in the winter .
once the ancient capital of a powerful hill state , kangra was known for its magnificent temples and as a centre of the arts .
the town of mandi , famous for its shivratri , is rich in history and culture .
sam sand dunes is one of the best nature 's gift to the human beings .
ahmedabads museums are also noteworthy the calico museum of textiles has one of the worlds finest collections of textiles , antique tapestries , wall hangings , costumes and antique looms .
on both sides of the taj are two identical red sandstone mosques .
in 1799 during the thronging ceremony of the prince due to unavailability of the palace the ceremony took place in nazarabad under a pandal .
the structure was gradually erected as the bronze form was fortified with an iron and stone framework .
akbar was an astute ruler , who encouraged interaction with his hindu subjects and neighboring chieftains .
fatehpur sikiri is a city built in red sandstone .
the fort was the site of the military activity during the mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the british .
the route to simla pass is along a heavy blanket of snow , and from here , the beautiful chhota kailash peak is perennially in view .
brahmavart ghat is considered the holiest ghat of bithoor .
so whether you want to mingle with kings and queens or the latest pop stars , this is the place to go .
this region witnessed the invasion of mahmud of ghazni in 1009 ad .
hyderabad has always been more than an amalgam of monuments , mosques , minarets , mansions , mandarins and memories .
the tomb is in the centre of the char bagh , gardens laid out in four quadrants .
the tower very soon became a favorite subject for painters , and contemporary artists continue to use it as their model .
mountaineering routes are graded according to the degree difficulty and accessibility .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
these bazaars are a lot of fun not just what are available , but also for the cheerful people in their traditional costumes .
for five centuries , since the new world discoveries of christopher columbus .
tree-lined streets and abundant greenery made bangalore the ' garden city ' of india .
if you are looking for souvenirs , buy the khumbeu ceremonial bamboo hat , made of waterproof wild hnathial leaves .
sankar varma , the king of kashmir exercised his influence over the regions of himachal pradesh in about 883 ad .
the roof of mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes .
the gorgeous green of the fringed palms ripple in the blue waters and blend into wavelets .
today the periyar lake presents an excellent boating spot for tourism .
road distances to some important centers of tourist interest in the region are : agra 230 km , alwar 142 km , bharatpur 176 km , jhunjhunu 182 km , jodhpur 332 km , mandawa 190 km , nathdwara 355 km , sariska 111 km , udaipur 374 km and delhi 261 km .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan 's capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of lord buddha .
the gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh , which symbolizes the gardens of paradise in islam .
apart from the extremely tempting menu choices there is an excellent wine list ( sensibly priced ) obviously selected by someone with knowledge .
jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters .
chandela architecture was obviously at its peak when the temples were built .
mumbai is a great place for shopping , where you can find everything from all across the country .
ayodhya is also famous for its close association with the epic ramayana .
the state has a picturesque colonial capital , shillong , and is home to an extraordinary diversity of people , which includes the khasi , jantia and garo tribes .
aurangabad is connected to all major cities and towns by good roads .
for palau and the northern mariana islands , see the pacific islands of micronesia section .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan s capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
big ben is not open to the public .
roha on konkan railway is the nearest railhead. mumbai is 165 kms. by road .
but they also have a small in house museum which gives the details of the progress and development in the history of railway in india .
the famous ' jhamu yatra ' is held in april-may when devotees walk over a narrow trench strewn with embers .
when the portuguese penetrated the indian ocean in the late 15th century , they arrived at india s southwestern coast .
it was sullivan who revolutionized agricultural practice in these mountains , there by changing the face of the local economy .
as a climber , you can not afford to suffer from vertigo or a lapse of judgment .
after the olympic games were banned in ad 391 by the emperor theodosius i as pagan practices , the temple of zeus was ordered closed .
some of the important sites that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in kullu in himachal pradesh , india are raghunathji temple , akhara bazaar , naggar , manikarna and deo tibba .
paraguay is a little known landlocked country , which has found itself somewhat isolated from even its neighbors in the past by geography and politics .
the regional tourist office is located at tourist bungalow , 35 m . g . marg .
the foundation stone was laid in november 18 , 1921 by ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the fourth .
the level of sophistication in artwork becomes obvious when one realizes that a 3 cm decorative element contains more than 50 inlaid gemstones .
once guarded by swaying date palm trees , which gave the city of khajuraho its name , the city is a study in art and sculpture .
in order to promote tourism in the north-east region , the governmant of india has decided to allow foreign tourists to visit nagaland .
climate in summer , between march and june , the temperature soars up to 45 c during the day .
queen victoria was the first monarch to take up residence here after the architect john nash transformed it from buckingham house into a palace .
a delicately carved trelliswork marble screen encloses them .
the kankaria lake is surrounded by landscaped garden , terraced slopes , zoo , aquarium and balvatika .
all these unbroken victories created a feeling of pride among the people here and his victories came to be celebrated in a big way .
it commemorates the site of the ninth guru of the sikhs , guru teg bahadur 's martyrdom .
the city offers all modern facilities needed by a visitor and is a centre for cultural activities .
himalayas come up prime in the list of eminently see-able sites as far as the hill stations in india are concerned .
visit the tomb of the sufi saint , khwaja moinuddin chisti , and the dargah sharif .
in 1847 , mexico was forced to cede half of its territory to the usa .
the indigenous inca civilization of what is now peru was conquered by spain in the early 16th century .
lingti is the one of the longest and largest valley of the spiti .
centuries after khwaja moinuddin chishti s demise , his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind .
the two main dialects here are gujarati and hindi .
by around 1845 laminated iron was taking over as a more efficient and economic material than cast iron , heralding a spectacular rejuvenation in the conception of buildings .
held from 5th to 11th april on the kanakakunnu palace grounds , famous hotels from all across kerala take part in flavor food festival .
situated on the southern borders of gujarat , is the union territory of daman and diu .
the former docklands area , made redundant by changes in shipping that have concentrated on down-river tilbury , has rightly been seen as an opportunity to revitalize the area .
visitors from all over the world throng to the shiipgram city during taj mahotsav and enjoy it up to the full extent .
porbandar is famous as the birthplace of mahatma gandhi .
the dharamshala town is built on a spur of dhauladhar range , and varies from 1 , 250 m to nearly 180 m .
there were border disputes with brazil and ecuador , and especially with chile .
accommodation theres a range of accommodation but it doesn t go too far up in the luxury bracket .
the city has beautiful palaces , gardens , hills , temples and lakes , which fascinate visitors with their perfection .
it is said that the right foot of sati ( shivas consort ) fell here and a ` peeth was constructed .
one of the most popular deserts in indi the that region was once ruled by the rajputs .
surrounding the central chamber are four octagonal rooms where the other members of the royal family were to have been laid to rest .
the architectural style of the temple is one of the best examples of dravidian architecture .
its name , legend says , is a variation of pharaoh 's island , but it is more likely that the name is greek in origin .
akbar invited the architects and artisans all over the world and planned for the building with absolute perfection .
the place being nearer to the nainital , almora , pithoragarh etc can attract large number of water sports loving tourists also .
to celebrate their unity , the rhodians sold the equipment and used the money to erect an enormous statue of their sun god , helios .
the city is famous for its majestic forts , palaces and beautiful lakes which attract tourists from all over world .
entertainment facilities at the vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach .
it has also been used as a meeting place for members of the commonwealth of nations since 1962 and is , alas , not open to the public .
vishakapatnam , which derives its name from vishka , the god of valor , is situated along the east coast on the bay of bengal .
with a population of 6 million people , chennai is a vibrant city ever growing , expanding and changing every year .
the fairs are held on the banks of the sangam the confluence of the three sacred rivers ganga , yamuna and saraswati .
ahmedabad became the base camp for the indian freedom struggle with gandhijis sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , the core .
the lodi rule was to end very soon and agra passed into the possession of the mughals .
today , bolghatty palace is a hotel run by the kerala tourism development corporation .
the fort can be visited during low tide when the waters have receded .
by 1816 , both powers had removed their respective garrisons and the falkland islands had no permanent inhabitants .
the monument was built by the egyptian pharaoh khufu of the fourth dynasty around the year 2560 bc to serve as a tomb when he dies .
the central , eastern and western plains have tropical dry deciduous forests , while the southwestern plateau has tropical thorny forests .
the unique mughal style combines elements of persian , central asian , and islamic architecture .
numerous changes in control followed over the next 200 years , alternating between france , britain , the netherlands and portugal , until the territory was finally confirmed as french in 1817 .
in the south-east corner is a small hindu shrine honoring laxmi , the goddess of wealth .
it is set in the midst of lush bamboo forests , near thenzawl ( 142 km from aizawl .
the shrine of lord sakshigopal is only 20 kms away from puri .
dahanu , a quite seaside town with a sprawling , uncluttered beach , is situated in thane district .
chowpatty is a popular beach where celebration of festivals such as coconut day and the ganesh chaturthi immersions take place .
the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttaranchal are the most popular destinations for trekkers , though chamba and manali in himachal pradesh , and ladakh and zanskar in jammu and kashmir , have interesting trekking routes as well .
all official transactions and meetings are held in gandhinagar , the administrative capital while ahmedabad and surat are two important trading centers .
the temple contains inscriptions dating back to the 13th century ad and is a fine specimen of the dravidian style of architecture .
tirupati is famous for the shrine on the 'seven hills ' of tirumala which attract millions of pilgrims from all over india .
visit the 4.5 km long golden marina beach , one of the longest beaches in the world .
camel safaris generally cover the area around jaisalmer , bikaner or jodhpur , popularly known as the desert circuit .
shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept .
bangalore meets the season 's expectations , which means , it is warm in the summer , chilly in winter and the monsoons visit regularly .
a camel safari is exciting , but is not exactly a relaxing vacation .
gandhi darshan & gandhi national museum gandhi darshan & gandhi national museum is across rajghat and gandhi smriti is on tees january marg .
one of the oldest churches in kerala , the st mary 's church is believed to be one of the seven established by st thomas .
gujarat has a long varied history and a great number of interesting places to visit .
this massive fortress is located on top of a sandstone hill and has been controlled by rulers from several dynasties such as the mughals , tomars , britishers and scindias .
there are also numerous finely wrought gold and silver coins , gifted to the synagogue by various patrons .
indian airlines has regular flights to port blair , from calcutta and chennai .
these excavations together with detailed descriptions by ancient historians give us a fairly good idea about the shape and appearance of the mausoleum .
the ice skating club in shimla has already celebrated its dimound jubilee .
the quiet and beautiful township of bithoor is situated on the kannauj road , 27 km from kanpur .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
for those with romantic tendencies , the house where poet john keats lived is open to the public and includes many of his personal effects .
its neighboring countries are pakistan , bangladesh , china , tibet and sri lanka .
capital complex area , with its monumental public buildings is the site of architect le corbusier 's most ambitious experiments .
panchkula district has a sub tropical continental monsoon climate where we find seasonal rhythm , hot summer , cool winter , unreliable rainfall and great variation in temperature .
all festivals are jointly organized by the department of tourism , government of tamil nadu and ministry of tourism , government of india .
kolhapur , i have heard , does not have much to offer a tourist .
the queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue .
kerla is known for its panoramic backwater stretches , lush green paddy fields , highlands and beaches .
september to march is the best season to visit udaipur .
pipli is also known for colorful and original awnings , canopies , garden and beach umbrellas , shoulder and handbags etc .
it is said that there was a controversy between the rulers of tughlakabad and the saint over building this tank .
the city is also linked to muscat , london and new york .
the aryans with their superior war tactics defeated the local tribes and settled here permanently .
and it was sullivan again who encouraged the construction of the early ghats up in to the hills .
they were replaced in 1897 and 1899 by the fives-lille machinery , relying on hydraulic accumulators , 16-meter long main pistons , cable loops and manual controls .
the maharaja palace is of harmonious synthesis of the hindu and saracenic styles of acrhitecture with archways , domes , turrets , colonnades and sculptures which are magnificent .
one can notice a marvellous change in vegetation , as one goes from kallar to coonoor .
the xenon 6000 watt lamps were chosen for their longevity , around 1200 hours .
the main markets of jaipur , from where you can buy some useful items are along jauhari bazar , bapu bazar , nehru bazar , chaura rasta , tripolia bazar and m.i. raod .
constructed largely of wood , tipu 's palace is known for its five elaborately decorated arches surmounted by exquisite minarets , and paintings on the walls and ceilings .
the rajputs were never a threat to the moghul rulers of northern india , and perhaps that is why so many of their buildings and monuments still stand today .
sightseeing emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
you may even get a glimpse of the tiger during this season .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking for those interested in going on tour to historical monuments in kullu in himachal pradesh , india .
national rose garden is situated in the chanakya puri area of the capital .
this is the main bazaar in kullu , himachal pradesh , india .
uttar pradesh shares international boundaries with nepal and china and is surrounded by the indian states of himachal pradesh , haryana , rajasthan , madhya pradesh and bihar .
camel safari could be the best choice for the adventure-seeking tourists moving around the interiors of thar desert , witnessing the cities and historical ruins of the city .
some regard this gradual focus on tourism as disconcerting many wish to preserve antarctica in its elemental state and want to avoid any potential environmental damage .
now this is a famous art gallery which consists of paintings by famous indian painter ` ` raja ravivarma .
the project was conceived and initiated by ptolemy soter around 290 bc , but was completed after his death , during the reign of his son ptolemy philadelphus .
the old bailey was built in the early 1900 's on the site of the old newgate prison .
the one to the right , the jawab ( answer ) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the mecca .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available in plenty .
at the city of giza , a necropolis of ancient memphis , and today part of greater cairo , egypt .
finally the east zone , which is the industrial area of the city .
beyond doubt , khajuraho is not an indian destination you can afford to miss .
mewar festival is one of the important festivals of udaipur and held every year in the month of april .
the bharatpur palace houses a large number of exhibits dating back to the early 15th century .
in bilaspur is a vyas gufa , which draws a continuous host of tourists and pilgrims .
they provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional indian life in the desert , with all the hardships , the beauty and the desolation .
the impressive pietra dura artwork includes geometric elements , plants and flowers , mostly common in islamic architecture .
much of the fort is occupied by the army and is out of bounds for visitors .
since 1811 , when it became independent , paraguay has been governed mainly by dictatorships and has endured a number of costly wars against neighboring countries .
india is home to a rich diversity of wildlife .
the only down side is the rather busy main road that cuts through the middle .
the marble mausoleum is square in plan with chamfered corners .
the city of joy is famed for stories of the love of king baaz bahadur , and his consort , rani rupmati .
on one end of chandni chowk is the fatehpuri mosque which was erected by the wives of shah jahan .
a picturesque world of backwaters , thatched houseboats , cormorants , chinese fishing nets and swaying palms-an ideal getaway .
the theosophical society is located along the adyar river .
a remarkable structure , this is a masterpiece of indo islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the ajmer city .
in 408 bc , the cities united to form one territory , with a unified capital , rhodes .
champhai is situated at the end of mizoram and one can view from here the myanmar hills .
food , rest , ayurvedic massages and long walks with the inevitable shopping will make your visit here memorable and a true vocation .
akbar s mausoleum at sikandra , 10 kms from agra , can be visited by hiring an auto rickshaw for the day .
sam sand dunes is one of the most popular dunes located on the turf of thar desert in jaisalmer that attracts huge number of tourists throughout the year .
this imposing mosque was built in the name of jehanara begum , shah jehan 's daughter .
agra is well connected by excellent train services to delhi such as the shatabdi express ( 2.5 hrs ) , inter city express ( 3hrs ) .
the fort built by rawal jaisal in the 12th century , stands on the 80 metre high trikuta hill , with beautifully carved jain temples .
there are mixed heronries on the half submerged babul trees and the cacophony is unbelievable as painted storks , open bills , spoon bills , egrets , cormorants , white ibis and multitudes of others , tend their young .
there are a number of places of historical interest in ajmer , rajasthan , india that you could tour to during your historical tours to this historical city .
in the centre of the taj mahal there are the cenotaphs of shah jahan and mumtaz mahal .
the best season to visit this garden is during december / january when the flowers are in full bloom .
it was during this time , that the valley rose to great heights in the realm of philosophy , artand letters .
the ancient greek calendar starts in 776 bc , for the olympic games are believed to have started that year .
foreign nationals are not allowed to visit nicobar islands .
the temperature is around 28c during the day , but can go down to 4c at night .
there 's even an open-air theatre and a sculpture park in the sector 10 section of the valley .
at the dawn of the 20th century , the eiffel tower adopted quite quickly the new electric technology .
crafts museum is at pragati maidan grounds and it open from 10am-5pm daily .
ooty lake is a very popular tourist spot in ooty .
large bags , cameras , phones , radios and cassette recorders can not be brought into the court and unfortunately there are no facilities to leave them outside .
the best time to visit jaipur city is in between october to march .
chennai , as a key honeymoon destination in india is home to several attractive honeymoon hotels in chennai , which can delight honeymooners in india , no bounds .
the kundah hydroelectric project executed in 1956 is also worth a visit .
the unparalleled beauty of these islands , create in mean a love of nature with a caressing tenderness , a wistful fondness for all its delicate nuances .
even if you are accustomed to horse riding , since the gait of the camel is quite different , it may take some time to get used to it .
for centuries the people of the valley had been suffering from the recurring curse of famines and floods .
the war of the pacific broke out between peru and chile in 1879 , with a complete victory for chile and the loss to peru of some southern territories .
horse safaris are organized in the marwar region of rajasthan .
the hindu festivals of dashera or navratri and diwali ; muslim festivals of id and christian festivals of easter and christmas are celebrated with great community participation and gusto .
the grassy slopes covered with snow , make it an ideal ski course drive 185 kms to guptakshi ( 1319 m ) from rishikesh .
a beautiful lake surrounded by a thick shoal where even sunlight can not penetrate and abundant with a wide variety of avifauna is a nature lover s paradise .
chandavaram is located on the right bank of river gundla kamma in pakasam district .
queen didda was the defector ruler of the state , as she was very dominating and exercised immense influence over her husband .
regular bus services connect chandigarh with amritsar , delhi , dharamshala , kulu , manali , nangal , pathankot and shimla .
the actual tomb is situated inside the taj .
from the main beach it will take about half an hour to walk to kulaba fort , but a tonga can get you there quickly .
a thrill a minute adventure sport where split second decisions can literally make or mar heliskiing is probably the most excting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
it was n't until the twentieth century that some of the mysteries surrounding the hanging gardens were revealed .
udayagiri caves the history of indian architecture begins in the 3rd millennium bc .
marylebone remains a community in the very heart of london .
both of them are in ruins now , but even then , they stand as the most imposing monuments of ancient kashmir .
inside the city , taxis are the only way to get around .
the majestic ashoka pillar records visit of emperor ashoka to sarnath .
prohibition is strictly enforced in gujarat .
once again , it secured its position of eminence as the capital of the north-western provinces .
the beauty of kerala can not be just written or explained , it has to be experienced .
and who can forget lush green tea gardens which beckon you to have a cup of fresh tea and enjoy the enthralling music of life .
to the east are commercial houses and the west bengal government tourist bureau .
fatehpur sikri is richly decorated structure is a quaint mixture of styles .
for routes inside the inner line , the local district magistrate s permission , or that of the central home ministry is necessary .
sree chitra art gallery is of course the only among the many other paintings from the mughal , rajput , bengal and tanjore schools of art .
in the 2005 parliamentary elections , his party won a majority of seats in the national assembly .
the araucanian indians were the original inhabitants of chile .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honor of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
winter skiing in garhwal is , now , professionally conducted at the auli slopes .
the nearest railhead , silchar , in assam , is 180 km away .
during the wodeyar rule , mysore reached the zenith of its glory as a fabled center of oriental splendor .
the saint had said that the city of tughlakabad will never flourish and so did it happen .
on closer look , the lettering of the quran verses around the archways appears to be uniform , regardless of their height .
a large wooden gate with the initials voc engraved on it , is a little way off from vasco house , facing the parade ground .
the beauty and the salubrious climate of the valley were known even from the ancient times .
even the historians who give detailed descriptions of the hanging gardens never saw them .
deluxe bus services of rajasthan roadways also connect jaipur with many important tourist centers in the state , like kota , jodhpur , etc .
the wise thing to do is to hire a car with a driver if you want to get the many tourist spots within and outside the city .
everyday , half of mumbai 's population commutes from far-flung suburbs to downtown offices , banks , factories and mills for a living .
a unique feature of the city is that hyderabad is the only city in the south , where the major language spoken is urdu .
across five indian states spread the mighty himalayas are compressed in this expanse is the widest monotonic geographical variety .
centrally located ulsoor lake is spread over an area of 1.5 sq. km .
however , whether tiring or relaxing , a camel safari is bound to be a unique experience .
but then again , like the rest of india , there are festivals that are celebrated by all , regardless of one 's own religion .
the old city built by the mughal emperor akbar stands to the south along the banks of the yamuna .
jodhpur has some festivals that are special if not unique to it , the kite festival of jodhpur being one of them .
just a few kilometers away are two undiscovered beaches nandgaon and kashid .
the most meager that your budget can get is $ 25 per day of your stay .
the mayo hall complex is a complete sports complex with table tennis , basketball , badminton and volleyball facilities .
besides the hotel fare , chinese and south indian restaurants are also widespread .
palitana is the architectural grandeur of nearly 863 jain temples on the shetrunjaya hills , have few parallels .
the main shopping area is around the civil lines , chowk and katra regions .
a bulbous white double dome majestically crowns the taj .
one of the ten most luxurious trains in the world , palace on wheels could be described as the pride of india known for the wonderful , unparallel , unforgettable and unique style onboard .
this gigantic and imposing historical fort has a number of palaces , havelis , temples and other buildings inside the fort walls .
india is a vast country known for its diversified culture and traditions .
another temple dedicated to lord shiva is the someshwara temple built by kempe gowda in ulsoor .
agar was once the capital of the mughal empire and even today it seems to linger in the past .
the result was immediate and from that point , the number of foreign visitors rose steadily .
indian travel destinations accounts for a package tour to dehradun , which shares many features of significance with other hill stations in india , uttarnachal .
though madras is predominantly populated by hindus , it has several fine monuments and places of worship connected to the christian faith .
poet ghyasuddin had designed the verses on the tombstone , while ismail khan afridi of turkey was the dome maker .
visit sundernagar and the adjoining balh valley , rewalsar lake and apple orchards of karsog .
the story of taj mahal reflects the intensity of love .
a visit to the falls and the contact with wildlife and the spectacle of the waters awake an emotion that many hope to experience once in a lifetime .
it is a delight for lovers of culture .
an ancient town that lies 56 km south of aurangabad , paithan is renowned for its famous paithani silk saris .
the royal charisma of rajasthan tour brands is the most desiring tourist destination in the world .
the parvati valley , named after the consort of lord shiva , is well known for manikaran which is revered as a place of pilgrimage by hindus and sikhs .
ajanta finished caves is a representation of the miracle of shravasti when the buddha manifested himself in thousand forms .
the kanha national park is open daily from 1 november to 30 june , although management reserves the option to close it earlier if the rains begin before the end of june .
the world famous khajuraho temples were built by the chandela kings between 950 a.d. and 1050 a.d. .
besides the miraculous architectural features and the elaborate ornamentation of the taj mahal , many additional features , which can often be overlooked , help complement and enhance this spectacular monument .
the taj is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular buildings of the world .
orissa is predominantly rural , with fertile green coastal plains rising to the hills of eastern ghats .
the great pyramid is believed to have been built over a 20 year period .
patna has an airport of its own with all the major airlines having air services to and fro from the place .
allahabad is among the largest cities in uttar pradesh .
the best way to see sand dunes and other sights around jaisalmer is to take a camel safari .
qutab minar since those early days many dynasties and rulers flourished on its regal soil .
dimapur is connected by good motor able roads with kohima 74 kms , kaziranga 155 kms , imphal 220 kms , guwahati 292 kms , shillong 365 kms and calcutta 1442 kms .
the suez canal emerged on the political scene in 1956 , during the suez crisis .
a fifteen-minute ferry ride from marve or borivali takes you to gorai and manori .
even if situated in the middle of nowhere , the khajuraho temple complex site is one the most popular places both foreign and indian tourists .
marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
a history which encompasses all the various kings and emperors who fixed their royal citadels here - - indraprastha , lal kot , quila rai pithora , siri , jahanpanah , tughlakabad , ferozabad , dinpanah , delhi sher shahi or then shahjahanabad .
the growing number of visitors queuing up to experience the uniqueness of the himalayas , it is essential to protect its fragile environmental balance .
the northern rivers with their origins in the lofty himalayas provide an exciting adventure for the white water enthusiasts .
bangalore is world famous for its software business .
in 1970 , the aswan high dam was inaugurated by president sadat .
city palace is situated in the heart of city , it occupies about one seventh of the old city area .
however , the southern portion , in and around the town of ratnagiri , is famous for its alphonso mangoes .
bartholomew the great which stands near the 1 , 000 year old st .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
a memorial to the immortal tamil poet-saint thiruvalluvar , this valluvar kottam landmark is located at nungambakkam .
information about any such exhibition can be obtained from the museum itself or from the tourist offices .
what used to be the favorite summer getaway of tipu sultan , is now a popular picnic spot with its awesome fort , sprawling lawns and two ancient temples .
in a way , it is a synthesis of the bold masculine red sandstone structures built by akbar and the delicately crafted white marble buildings of jahangir and shah jahan .
nearest railhead 15kms away from khatima distance and from naintal 119 kms nearest airstrip is pantnagar .
the irish novelist bram stoker ( 1847-1912 ) used to enjoy walking in the peace of high gate cemetery .
the sukhna lake was created in 1958 by damming the sukhna choe , a seasonal stream that flows down from the shivaliks .
by 1998 , the country was in the grip of the struggle between the government , traffickers , right-wing paramilitaries and left-wing guerrillas .
the initials correspond to the monogram of the once powerful dutch east india company , which had its office in cochin for almost 150 years .
one probably has to realize first that the 2000 km long reef runs predominantly in the north-south direction , therefore spanning a wide range of climates .
it was covered with a casing of stones to smooth its surface ( some of the casing can still be seen near the top of khefre 's pyramid .
it is the great pyramid of giza .
nek chand 's rock garden is probably chandigarh 's premier attraction , a popular spot for tourists .
amer palace , magnificent fort with its huge ramparts & watchtowers is believed to have been the capital of the ` ` minas ` ` , the original inhabitants of rajasthan .
also visit jaswant thada , an imposing marble memorium built in 1899 and the museum located in the umaid public gardens .
laxmi narayan temple s interiors contain the most exquisite of orchha 's wall paintings .
opened only recently to foreign tourists , the resort with its simple but attractive housing , have already become a circled spot in the brochures of tour operators all over .
the amber fort complex is located atop a hill overlooking the tiny maota lake and the jaipur-delhi highway .
the vishram ghat is lined with elegant temples and some of mathura 's most important shrines are found here - the mukut temple , radha-damodar , murli manohar , neelkantheshwar , yamuna-krishna , langali hanuman and narasimha temples .
three large sized images made of clay and painted brightly are its focal attraction .
mysore also celebrates the national festivals of independence day , the republic day and the birthday of gandhiji .
maharaja bhupinder singh was deprived of the right of entry into the more royal and grandiose shimla as he had a spat with lord kitchener .
look for tiny , picturesque villages , acquaint yourself with different people & and their lifestyle .
hotels , resorts and lodges etc to suit all budgets are available at port blair and some other places also .
spectacular views apart , the himalayan foothills are just ideal for trekking , offering energetic outdoor people a different and exciting option for a holiday .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
few tourists venture far from brazil 's spectacular beaches but a trip into the interior reveals a different brazil , one with a great deal to offer the visitor .
jodhpur , the second largest city of rajasthan , at the edge of the thar desert was once the capital of the marwar state .
one of the world 's most exciting journeys , the palace on wheels offers the world class services and facilities onboard .
advance bookings are recommended , especially during the holiday season .
similar to the great pyramid , we are now visiting the burial place of an ancient king .
on the ancient island of pharos , now a promontory within the city of alexandria in egypt .
although covent garden is usually packed with visitors , the area remains attractive and vibrant .
throughout their history , the pyramids of giza have stimulated human imagination .
bangalore is now an international airport as well and is currently served by lufthansa , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
established in 1983 indian school of martial arts is in vazhuthacaud in the heart of the city .
perched atop the aravallis , the kumbhalgarh fort is the second principal fortress after chittorgarh .
barahi is a deity dating back to the 9th century ad , worshipped according to tantrik practices .
a good network of roads joins jaisalmer with jodhpur and many other destinations in and around rajasthan .
the story of taj mahal is an example of devotion and faith .
it was even shown on roman coins , just as famous monuments are depicted on currency today .
raja wodeyar ascended the throne in 1610 ad , in srirangapatna the erstwhile capital and inaugurated the dashara festivities which are still celebrated with all grandeur .
there is a small mosque on the second floor , which is the oldest in hyderabad .
jaipur 's regal heritage is evident in its architecture and culture .
onam generates a lot of excitement and the city wears its heart on its sleeve during this time .
high altitude climbers will enjoy the rock faces at sonmarg in kashmir and gangotri in garhwal , uttaranchal .
the museum is located on the barakhamba road and is closed on mondays .
a major feature of the fort and palaces is the superb quality of stone carvings .
the park 's area includes the former shooting reserves of the erstwhile royal state of panna and chhattarpur and the jungles today harbor many species of wildlife .
jaisalmer is also famous for its embroidery , rajasthani mirror work , rugs , blankets , antique , and stonework and camel safaris into the barren sand-dunned desert .
the moths from december to february are pretty cool .
he stayed in kashmir for nearly two years , studied sanskrit and hindu scriptures at the feet of learned men here .
the historic importance of this place stems from the fact that sardar vallabhbhai patel began his first satyagraha in the year 1928 .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
imphal can also issue permits to tourists traveling by road from imphal to kohima & dimapur in nagaland .
the best time to visit bharatpur is during the months of october , november , february and march .
coconut palms , mango orchards , chikoo wadis and paddy fields make alibag a pleasantly verdant and unpolluted retreat .
strabo was right , except that the sculptor is to be commended , not criticized .
foot guards from the household division , in their distinctive red tunics and black bearskins , can be seen on guard duty outside the palace daily .
they lost their independence with the rise of the guptas in the north gangetic plains .
this palace gets its beauty by the chamundi hill to its backside and is located towards east of mysore city .
puri , the abode of lord jagannath , is situated in the eastern part of orissa and is one of the four holy dhams of hinduism .
the construction of imperial bombay continued well into the 20th century .
trekking provides the thrilling adventure of an uphill climb on narrow bridle paths , breathtaking views across growing hills , valleys and gorges and the changing vegetation at every turn .
regular bus service connect hyderabad with bangalore , chennai , nagpur , tirupati and other tourist centers in andhra pradesh .
adventure tourism in india offers rare opportunities of the order of parasailing , skiing , water sports , river rafting , trekking and mountain climbing to name some of the chief deals on offer in india .
from december on , the migratory geese , duck and cranes are the main feature of the sanctuary .
buddhist temple at kushinagar and among the ruins of nalanda you can still hear a distant echo of the chants of scholars of ancient times .
the museum has separate section for the harrapa ( indus valley civilization ) collection .
it was a small village made popular by the british who established shimla as there summer capital in 1864 ad .
also known as netaji subhas chandra marg , marine drive features a bustling waterfront promenade .
amanat khan shirazi was the calligrapher of taj mahal , his name occurs at the end of an inscription on one of the gates of the taj .
the watch towers were redesigned and modern canon were mounted in strategic areas .
bhubaneshwar is directly connected by rail with calcutta , puri , chennai , delhi , mumbai , bangalore , guwahati , hyderabad , tirupati and trivandrum .
later , several stacked mastabas were used .
delhi is the capital city and one of the largest cities in india .
the british introduced the brown and rainbow trout to the streams of kashmir , where they have thrived .
retaining the charms and mannerisms of the nizams , they are courteous , polite and extremely helpful .
madhya pradesh state is famous for the gwalior fort .
a small museum displays photographs and other antiques of the britishers , relevant to these islands .
there are two temples on either side of the main palace , dedicated to lord-krishna and lord shiva .
it was gokul that lord krishna was brought up in secrecy by yashoda , in the pastoral beauty of this village on the banks of the yamuna .
located in northwestern cambodia , angkor , the capital of the ancient khmer empire was possibly founded around the ninth century ad by king jayavarman ii .
the ride to ` ` the paradise on earth ` ` makes one admire the sylvan surroundings and the attendant himalayan flora with the tall poplars and cedars .
visit the kanch mandir , jain shrine worked in glass beads , lal bagh palace and the new palace .
even extraterrestrial-related theories have been proposed with little evidence in support .
the main attraction in dwarka is dwarkadhish temple .
the red temple is a digambar jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple .
two mounted life guards from the household cavalry keep mounted sentry duty during the day .
kanha 's valleys are enclosed by hills topped with plateau , locally called dadar .
for tourists , the high court and the open hand monument are more accessible than the legislative assembly and the secretariat .
of these , avalanche located at a distance of 28 km from ooty is a nature lover 's paradise .
the west contains the university , and institutions of engineering , architecture , asian studies and medicine .
within the fort complex laid the beautifully carved jain temples built between the 12th and 15th centuries .
the mausoleum was completed around 350 bc , three years after maussollos death , and one year after artemisia 's .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
there are nature parks and picnic spots at kufri .
discover the real maharastra while you soak up the soft sands .
the town of chamba is located in the colorful valley surrounded by the shivalik ranges and has the district headquarters .
a huge dome , rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the taj mahal .
they are mostly located in the quieter cantonment area and the new tourist complex .
dalhousie in line with the british era elegance and stateliness of shimla is too worth a watch just for the sake of experiencing the hallowed past of the british era .
194 kms from bangalore is hassan , from where one can go to belur , halebid and shravanabelagola .
emperor akbar founded this city in 1575 and called it by name of ` illahabas , which has now become modern allahabad .
so it was moved to its present site and now stands surrounded by a chaotic mass of traffic .
the city fell into decline and disarray till modern times , when people rediscovered its historical importance and tremendous tourist potential .
the forest around the lake at bharatpur harbours the sambar , chital , nilgai , jackal , hyena , fox , mongoose and porcupine .
all five coastal provinces , encompassing 640km ( 398 miles ) of coastline between them , have attractive beaches and plenty of hotels and resorts for tourists .
32 kms from bharatpur , deeg is an 18th century stronghold , whose massive fortifications are surrounded by luxuriant gardens , woods and pools .
according to legend , somnath is as old as creation , built by the moon god himself .
at that time it was still called barking abbey although it was no longer a monastic abbey .
on the banks of the river mandakini , and centre of ritual activity , this ram ghat is the most frequented in chitrakoot .
just above the naubat khana is the indian war memorial museum which has a rich collection of amours , guns , swords , and other items related to war .
many rajasthan roadways passenger and deluxe buses pass through kumbhalgarh from ajmer , pushkar , jodhpur and ajmer .
agra , the city of the taj mahal and once the capital of the mughal empire , has several monuments which display the splendour of mughal architecture .
around & about by air bamrauli airport lies 18 kms out of the city .
today chennai is the fourth largest city in india and commands a major share in the trade from the south .
rock climbing can become complex because it involves the interplay of many elements you , your gear , your skill and techniques .
unlike mumbai , the chennai port is not a natural harbor , nevertheless , this man-made port is very modern and efficient in handling cargo and other traffic .
mandvi was traditionally the port town for pilgrims to mecca and today maintains an active sea faring image .
taj mahal is an evidence that how emotions and feelings are important to human life .
with his honor and dignity severely compromised , he withdrew from business .
flanked by the high court and the old secretariat , the buildings were completed in 1874 .
the buddhist ruins are located on the contiguous hills locally known as bojjanakonda and lingalametta and consist of numerious monolithic stupas , caves and structural buildings .
includes live commentary and a souvenir guide map ( map in seven languages .
kanha national park ( which is now officially known as kanha tiger reserve ) is located in the maikal range , the eastern sector of the satpura hills of the central indian highlands .
today , this rose garden has the largest collection of roses in the country .
haji ali mosque is located at the end of a long causeway protruding into the arabian sea .
halebid 's 12th century hoysaleswara and kedareswara temples are masterpieces of hindu art .
the temple of angkor wat was dedicated to the hindu god vishnu by king suryavarman ii , who reigned between ad 1131 and 1150 .
the legendary shore temple of somnath is one of the most sacred shiva shrines in india .
the spanish prevailed in the early 18th century , after the establishment of a settlement at san felipe de montevideo ( which eventually became the uruguayan capital ) in 1726 .
the latter is a subterranean river believed to emerge at the sangam or confluence to join with the other two rivers .
the nearest mainline station for shimla is at kalka , 95 kms away , from here , there is a picturesque toy train upto shimla four times daily .
when the red fort was being built yamuna used to flow on its one sides and there were deep moats on the other .
located at the city of agra in the state of uttar pradesh , the taj mahal is one of the most beautiful masterpieces of architecture in the world .
the entry in the complex is free on fridays .
the temple was decorated with bronze statues sculpted by the most skilled artists of their time : pheidias , polycleitus , kresilas , and phradmon .
the focal stupa has an image of the master seated in a pavilion .
various bamboo items are also a good buy from luangmual handicrafts centre .
nearest underground stop is hammersmith .
shimla became the summer capital of india and even today , many old houses and buildings tell the story of english grandeur .
georges seurat painted it in 1888 , even before its completion .
recorded evidence also exists in the revered scriptures the vedas and the grand epics , the ramayana and the mahabharata , as also in the puranas of this holy place allahabad formerly called prayag .
mandawa houses a collection of armories , costumes of ancestors , canons from 1820 , ancient coins , numismatic , collection and many other interesting items preserved in a museum .
marble steps surrounding the building platform led to the high terrace which was approximately 80 m ( 260 ft ) by 130 m ( 430 ft ) in plan .
these are temples of significance to the jain pilgrims .
built in 1858 / 9 the bell was named after one sir benjamin hall and when it was cast it was britain 's heaviest bell .
houses with pink latticed windows line the streets , and look almost magical at sunset .
jag mandir , fateh prakash palace , crystal gallery and shilpagram are some of the best monuments and sites situated in the surroundings of the udaipur .
the indigenous builders of the taj mahal fully understood the deceptive nature of the human eye .
imphal is one of the most ancient towns in the indian subcontinent and is blessed with a healthy climate with evergreen scenic beauty , extending the tourists a cordial invitation .
mandi is situated on the left bank of the river beas at an altitude of 800 m. above the sea level .
lakshminarayan temple , a modern hindu temple , built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
the palace houses an extensive collection of rare manuscripts , mughal and rajasthani miniatures , mughal carpets , costumes and textiles , arms and weapons , objects of art and royal paraphernalia .
one of the idols inside the sanctum sanctorum is small and would be taken with the kings on their hunts .
the fine white sands of puri beach and the roar of the breakers rolling in from the bay of bengal have fascinated visitors throughout the years .
the british sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country .
the recorded history of mysore city , which was a principal town of a district , goes back to 10th century ad .
the area encompasses stunning residential property and the most exclusive shops in london .
the boat race held in the backwaters of karala is another event that just should never be missed .
there are some portraits of the rulers of jodhpur also displayed at jaswant thada .
high points for the visitors include shimla , which used to be the 'summer capital ' of british india and still one of india 's most important hill stations .
the historicity of the nagaur city can be traced back to 4th century ad .
from the city agra , there are taxis , tempos , auto rickshaws , and cycle rickshaws to carry one to the agra fort .
being a true representative of nagaland kohima depicting the most exotic tribal culture .
on the banks of riveryamuna , raises the crescent like agra fort .
it was later in 1303 and in 1323 that two stronger earthquakes left a significant impression on the structure .
the tower was assembled using wooden scaffolding and small steam cranes mounted onto the tower itself .
the buland darwaza , an imposing gateway 54 m high was built to commemorate akbar s aligarh the famous university town is a center of islamic studies .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
ruzaphema is a place ideally suited for leisure and recreation with its colorful bazaars and a wide range of tribal handicrafts which are exquisite in their style .
commonly referred to as bharatpur , the park is a delight for bird watchers .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol adheres to western standards .
arunachal pradesh was made a full fledged state on 20th february , 1987 .
much protuguese architecture still exists in the cochin .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
pleasantly tropical throughout the year , trivandrum s proximity to the sea makes for weather that has its variations .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
the national parks of kanger valley and indravati , the sanctuaries of udanti , sitanadi , barnawapara , achanakmar , gomardah , tamorpingla etc .
it was one of the first bastions of british power in india .
cruises too form part and parcel for the higher end honeymooners in india .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
swain 's lane splits the cemetery into two sides .
the hindu temples with profuse carvings and the imposing gopurams of the southern temples are an eloquent testimony to the fine art of indian architecture .
srirangapatna s mausoleum , the gumbaz , which sports ivory inlaid doors and the famous tiger-striped emblem , is also nearby .
opened in 1991 , nicco park is the first amusement park of calcutta , 9 km from the city .
it is gratifying to note that the cascade of the coonoor river near wenlock bridge on the coonoor-mettupalayam road named after law continues to bear the same name .
emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
next to the bridge you can still see the pillars , which supported the old 1860 's london , chatham and dover railway bridge .
the collected items in the museum could be far better classified because a lot of the really good pieces of art need to be hunted for .
as soon as construction began in 1630 , masons , craftsmen , sculptors , and calligraphers were summoned from persia , the ottoman empire , and europe to work on the masterpiece .
man mandir palace is built by raja man singh with vast halls and carved stone screens .
the designer of taj mahal was ustad ahmad lahauri .
this is the picture of the hanging gardens of babylon in most people 's minds .
during the times of shivaji there were 600 people living in this fort. today over 300 people resides here .
along the banks of the pushkar lake is the former residence of raja man singh of ajmer , man mahal .
north of kullu is a beautiful spot , in the midst of pinewood with high mountains towering above it .
the township is situated at 350 meters above mean sea level .
however , the calculation carried out by the french engineers showed a difference in level of 10 meters between both seas .
jaipur is also , an important junction with direct services to most places of tourist interest .
the volumes of construction in itaip are also impressive .
the 28.73 sq km lake and wetland was artificially created by the maharaja of bharatpur in the 19th century .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , incorporates information on tours and travels to hill stations in india covering the whole itinerary of places for the nature lovers .
trivandrum is well connected by major states and national highways with the rest of southern india .
there has been a bridge on this spot since the 1760 's , though the present one is about 100 years younger .
the exquisitely crafted throne was taken to delhi by shah jahan and was looted by nadir shah and carried away to persia .
the best season for river rafting in from april to september .
the bird sanctuary of kumarakom , which is spread across 14 acres , is a favorite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist s paradise .
the city bus service is efficient but very crowded .
its inhabitants , an amalgam of great wealth and abject poverty , are swept into the endless maelstrom of activity that characterizes this bombay city of dreams .
one of the factors that have gone in to make bangalore the fifth largest city in india today is its mild and healthy climate .
this rule also applies to phones , radios and cassette recorders , and unfortunately there are no facilities for leaving such items outside the court .
during your tours to historical monuments in bardoli in gujarat you must visit the bardoli satyagraha ashram located in surat in gujarat , india .
ooty is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
most of the buildings within the agra fort are a mixture of different architectural styles .
jaipur is 260 km from delhi and 240 km from agra and forms the most chosen tourism golden triangle of delhi , agra and jaipur .
light cottons are the best clothing , except in winter , when light woolens are required .
the massive taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates .
a walk through one of these inns is often like stepping back in time , especially if you happen upon a barrister in his obligatory eighteenth century court attire .
between the staircase ramps are symbols of the zarathustrian god ahura mazda , and carvings representing the different nations of the world , from egyptians and armenians , to babylonians , assyrians , and medians .
this garden has some of the rare and imported rose variety .
another impressive temple is the gavi gangadhareswara temple , an unusual cave temple .
there is a lot one can pick up in handicrafts , but beware of the touts who lead you into shops that overcharge and pay a hefty commission .
more than 3 , 000 tibetans have made dharamsala their temporary home , living mostly in mcleod ganj .
as part of the alterations , marble arch , which was originally the entrance to the palace , was moved to a new position at the corner of hyde park .
delhi is the main gateway city for northern india with a modern airport and all major international air carriers operate direct services to delhi from various centers in the world .
bombay is seen , to the teeming masses that flock there to live and work , as a place where opportunities abound .
this place does not confine its activities to golf alone but the day hikes and excursion through the woods and villages are other attractions for the tourists and nature lovers .
these temples have been highly acclaimed by countless tourists , historians , archaeologists and art lovers , for the architectural wonders they are .
these powers were gradually relaxed during the 1980s .
the original palace was built by rja man singh and additions were made later by sawai jai singh .
imphal , the capital of manipur , is the centre of all cultural , commercial and political activities .
there are some 20 other mammal species including the snow leopard and over 150 species of fauna .
langthabal is small hillock is situated about 8 kms from imphal on the indo-burma road and houses an old historic palace and neatly planned temples .
one can see 100 kms of countryside and the sahyadri hills in each direction .
keibul lamjao national park is the only floating national park in the world .
once known as an important seat of administration , kangra the capital city of chand dynasty tells a story of glory , which has faded into history .
the subways below marble arch are also a favorite pitch for beggars .
right from the beginning the popular success of the tower manifested itself in a multitude of varying forms : miniature models , bottles and candles , bracelet charms and watches , paper cutters and lamp stands .
it is 145 ft in height from ground level to the top of the dome .
space flight , dinosaurs alive , dynamotion , life in water , a world of insects and reptiles , walkthrough aviary , butterfly corner , convention centre , four seminar halls , mini auditorium , musical fountain and many other things of entertainment .
built by maharaj gang singh in memory of his father , the lalgarh palace is situated 3 km north of bikaner city .
over the years , stone house was subsumed in flurry of construction for the office of the secretariat .
the gigantic ashoka pillar , of polished sandstone stands 10.6 meters high , dating back to 232 b.c. .
pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of india .
regents park london-england also , during the summer the open-air theatre produces a variety of plays .
it is the idea that the king of gods is capable of unroofing the temple if he stood up that fascinated poets and historians alike .
backround s shades are subtly reflected on the white marble surface of the taj mahal , which changes its color and complexion accordingly .
manali is a small hill town in the valley of kullu .
yusmarg is an ideal picnic spot and the nilnag lake can be visited from here .
originally built in mud by kempe gowda in 1537 , the fort was extended and fortified by tipu sultan .
down river from devprayag , the ganga changes into a pool drop river .
the jade green water of the wular lake swirl gently around a curious bubbling spring in the middle of the lake .
shanti vana is the cremation site of jawaharlal nehru .
dalhousie is a gateway to the chamba valley .
the sunny , southern coastal town is named after the local goddess mangladevi .
geographically , it is closer to the temple of artemis .
guwahati has several places of historical interest .
this tomb was built by the nawab of avadh for his father .
best month to visit october to march is the best period to visit the city .
his artistic pursuits were also many and he made rich gifts to the hindu temples .
both decks are accessible for wheel chair users .
do n't expect to see the queen 's private apartments , garden or swimming pool , and you certainly wo n't meet her majesty .
in 305 bc , the antigonids of macedonia who were also rivals of the ptolemies , besieged rhodes in an attempt to break the rhodo-egyptian alliance .
nathmalji-ki-haveli , one very interesting fact about this haveli is that its two sides were carved by two brothers .
jaipur , jodhpur , jaisalmer and bikaner in the state of rajasthan were stronghold of hill forts and series of palaces .
a little away from the city is ramohalli , a picturesque picnic spot , that boasts of a 400-year old sprawling banyan tree , spread over 4 acres .
boats to the sangam , used by pilgrims and tourists alike , can be rented at the ghat immediately east of the fort .
bangalore is a cosmopolitan city , where different cultures and customs exist .
car rental companies will rent vehicles with drivers .
the canal remained in good condition during the ptolemaic era , but fell into disrepair afterwards .
along the south coast are the sites where many of the great events in lord krishna s life took place .
the upper deck is best for wild life viewing when taking a boat cruise , but better turn up half an hour early to get the best seat .
camel safaris are only held in rajasthan in india with the key zones to reach out being , the traditional and historical townships of jaisalmer and bikaner .
through the night just one dismounted sentry stands guard .
ajmer the city where the dargah of the great sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage .
surinam is bordered by the atlantic ocean , the marowijne river , french guiana and brazil .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
demand for tickets to buckingham palace is high .
nearest railhead from daman and diu is delwada ( 9 kms ) connected via veraval by metre guage line .
cast iron made its debut in the construction industry in 1779 with the bridge at coalbrookdale in england , followed in 1803 by the pont des arts bridge in paris .
even today , childless women come to the dargah or tomb to tie strings on the jails ( screens ) as prayer to the saint .
keeping in your seat as the camel raises or lowers itself to the ground , can appear at first to be a losing battle .
visitors are not allowed inside the house but when the house is in session , visitors may take permission to go inside and watch the proceedings of the house .
unfortunately , indoors climbing is not found in india but in western countries .
national museum has an excellent collection bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
the nearest airport is lengpui airport 45 kms from aizwal , there are regular flights of indian airlines from aizwal to calcutta .
chandigarh is a union territory and is directly under the administration of the indian government .
places of visit and presence include the island hotel in the middle of lake fatheh sagar , which is once again built out of an old palace .
with the intricate network of mountain rivers flowing through a myriad of different colors of rocky gorges , forests , flowers and high mountain villages , the garhwal and kumaon hills provide ideal locales for the perfect water adventure .
the calmness of place provides a soothing effect to the tired tourists .
ponadu chootu padayani is the annual festival at the ancient bhagavathy temple in meenachil taluk .
the place also has a large auditorium .
bhopal on the main line is connected by rail to major cities in india .
vemana samadhi is a famous tourist place in this district .
with the decline of the ancient khmer empire , angkor wat was turned into a buddhist temple and was continuously maintained , which helped its preservation .
the sight of people trying to balance a series of pots on their heads and doing so with consummate ease is quite a sight .
dharamsala over looks the plains and is surrounded by dense pine trees and deodar forests .
kurukshetra , the scene of the epic battle between the kauravas and the pandavas , is situated in haryana .
before madame tussaud had established herself in london , her collection of wax figures toured all around the country in wagons and caravans .
the trek starts at netwar , passes through osla , and ends at harkidoon .
full independence was achieved in 1975 .
covering an area of about 81 hectares , the complex consists of five towers , which are presently shown on the cambodian national flag .
just below these cenotaphs are the real graves , in a dark and humid crypt filled with incense .
two-thirds of brazil 's population lives near the coast , meaning that life is a beach for locals and tourists alike .
nagaland lies to the south of jorhat in assam , and is home to myriad tribes and sub tribes .
the london eye river cruise experience departs conveniently from the london eye pier located next to the london eye itself .
it is one of the most spectacular and popular attractions in the world , drawing visitors from far and wide .
guru shikhar is the highest peak on the mount abu which provides an excellent view of the whole town .
nakki lake , is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills , beautiful parks and is a must visit place .
after his death , it is mostly the weak rulers except his grand son jayaditya , who ruled the valley .
mysore is the former capital of the erstwhile wodeyars and the state of mysore .
this garden has some exotic and rare flower plants .
since then , the canal , which stretches 167 kms across the egyptian desert , has been widened twice .
by road gujarat has the best network of roads in india .
meanwhile , a third potent force emerged during the 1980s , in the form of organized drug traffickers ( known as cartels .
manali town is a romantic 's delight nestled comfortably between the dhauladhar and the pirpanjal mountain ranges .
the beaches of goa and kerala also offer other sporting opportunities like water skiing , wind surfing and sailing .
famous for the million year old fossils , the wood fossil park is a geological landmark of the thar desert , jaisalmer .
ahmedabad is linked to bombay , delhi , calcutta , chennai & other major cities in india by rail .
history has it that thiruvananthapuram had once been the part of call romans and jews , arabs and christians .
presently being restored , this palace is particularly beautiful at night with the floodlights lit .
with founding of mysore dynasty in 1399 ad by yaduraya , mysore has seen 24 rulers .
you can take a look at some of the 81 hindu temples in the area .
india gate is surrounded by green grass lawns and trees .
chamunda devi temple has artistic carvings on its lintel , pillars and the ceiling .
along the coastline , dandi has been known as the salt centre and it gained a place of pride after the famous dandi march satyagraha , in 1930 , by mahatma gandhi .
the arts and crafts of rajasthan state are amazing .
the lahore gate , the main entrance , has some emotions and sentiments attached with the indian independence as the tricolor flutters on the top of this gate .
tour to mandi kinnaur is a land of rich green valley , ripe orchards , vineyards , snow-covered peaks and cold desert mountains .
the founding of present day bangalore is attributed to the magadi chieftain , kempe gowda , who laid its foundations in 1537 .
national science center is located near pragati maidan .
it is a phenomenon that is proof of the technical excellence of ancient architects , of their knowledge of astronomy combined with great architectural skill .
while the other festivals are localized , the khajuraho dance festival attracts visitors from around the world .
this can be obtained from indian missions abroad or the immigration authorities in mumbai , calcutta , delhi , and chennai or on arrival at port blair .
a summer palace of the former maharaja of travancore , set along the lake , is a hotel and a fine place to stay .
an indian travel destination sponsored tour to dehradun can be a rejuvenating and reenergizing stint for a tired pair of legs or for an overworked executive .
the house of lords is in recess from 28th july 2000 , until 27th september 2000 .
after two years of fighting , the aztecs wee defeated .
make no mistake about it , with its ease of access , waterfront location and sense of history greenwich is the place that no self-respecting visitor can afford to miss .
nagaur is 43 km from khimsar , it is famous for the cattle fair that is held every in the month of january .
in 1954 , surinam , with the netherlands antilles , became an autonomous region within the kingdom of the netherlands .
bangalore is directly connected by rail with ahmedabad , mumbai , calcutta , cochin , delhi , guwahati , howarah , hyderabad , mangalore , chennai , mysore , nagpur , tiruvananthapuram , vasco-da-gama ( goa ) and other cities in india .
the diwanekhas entirely unique in its concept is a tall vaulted room with an intricately carved central pillar and capital supporting a platform that once held the emperor s throne .
udagamandalam considered a sanatorium and hill resort by the europeans , has come to be like any other district .
its success is unquestionable , as is its popularity with tourists and londoners alike .
all visitors are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
built enormous and lavish in 1911 to replace the old palace in the fort that burned down , the maharaja s palace is an extravagance of domes , arches , turrets and sculptures .
mandi s several old temples with fine stone carvings are noteworthy .
the usual season is late december to early march , depending on the snow conditions .
the imposing white edifice was consecrated in 1679 ad , and continues to be an important place of worship .
visit also the achalgarh fort famous for its shiva temple .
balsamand lake & palace is an artificial lake and is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 ad .
built in the 12th century , a fine example of dravidian temple architecture , krishnaraja wodeyar renovated the chamundeswari temple in 1827 .
the fort was originally built as protection , was later used by the royal family as the residence in the 18th century .
the indian architecture tradition is the living vital art from assimilating in it the influence of the various dynasties which ruled over it .
the best season of visit periyar wildlife sanctuary is from the monthes of october and june .
the athenian sculptor pheidias was assigned for the ` ` sacred ` ` task , reminiscent of michelangelo 's paintings at the sistine chapel .
jaipur is one of the best connected cities in the region with very frequent bus services .
once the royal summer retreat of the pleasure loving nawabs of junagadh , the imposing chorwad palace and the lovely expanse of beach before it combine to make chowrad unique .
haryana has a network of 43 tourist complexes , named after birds .
taxi and coach transfer is available from both international and domestic arrivals .
palampur has a quite a reasonable accommodation and is well connected by rail , road and air .
the jal mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties .
aizawl , the scenic capital of mizoram , is a religious and cultural center of the mizos .
hazrat miran was the governor of ajmer at some point of time in history .
london bridge connects the city with southward .
adi shankaracharya , one of the greatest gurus of hindu spirituality established his ashram in kancheepuram which is 75 kms from chennai .
one can enjoy a pleasure ride on road flanked by green tea beds on either side .
chamarajendra wodeyar and later the maharani regent commissioned a number of important buildings , besides putting some order in the city 's by now visible growth .
visitors to this country have the choice of a relaxing resort experience , a cultural city break or a wealth of adventurous activities .
also in the area is the museum housing the mysterious sun boat , only discovered in 1954 near the south side of the pyramid .
the nehru memorial has a collection of gifts and many other items which he possessed .
this hill station is called as ` ` the lofty hill ` ` which was flattened up for the construction of a monastery in the year 1716 .
the north-east monsoon brings light rainfall during the months of september , october , november and december .
this temple , dedicated to lord krishna , was built in the 8th century ad under the patronage of the pallavas .
pandikuzhi is one of the popular picnic spot of periyar , situated between chellarkovil and the tamil nadu state border .
dawki is a border town , 96 kms from shillong gives you a glimpse of bangladesh .
malad , a station on the suburban section of wr , is the nearest railhead .
the number of buddhist scholars who went to china from kashmir is larger than that of those who went from other parts of india .
you can hire a private car from a travel agent or car rental company to move around agartala .
though expensive and exclusive , heliskiing ultimate adventure sport is fast gaining popularity .
teen murti house is the erstwhile residence of jawaharlal nehru , india s first , prime minister , is now a museum .
palampur is famous for its agricultural university and tea gardens .
the terrific taj mahal happens to be the most popular monuments in the entire world .
however , its true beauty lies in the architectural and artistic details which will forever remain unknown .
however , the ancient name of the city was parsa , or pars ' city , hence the greek name persepolis .
the london coliseum is also just down the road on st .
fatehpur sikri is about 39 km from agra .
the colossal height of the tomb , along with its pyramidal appearance gives taj a soaring effect .
more than 300 years ago , job charnock , an english tradesman set up a trading post on the banks of the ganga along the three-village nucleus .
montevideo , the capital , contains more than half of uruguay 's population .
beautifully laid out gardens and parks , attractive monuments and marvelous heritage hotels , once the residence of maharajas are testaments to the rajasthan of yesteryears .
this past account of the valley , its culture and traditions , rise and fall of various kingdoms , victory and defeats of the people have been noted carefully , yet critically by the sons of its soil .
this palace is to the western side of ` ` kukkara halli lake ` ` and located approximately 4 km from mysore palace .
allahabad is a city of mixed culture of hindu , muslims , jains and christans .
an 18th century palace harmoniously blending the rajput and the mughals styles of architecture .
the wildlife parks and sanctuaries spread across the country , offer a fascinating diversity of terrain , flora and fauna .
the archaeological survey of india also has a guesthouse with spacious well furnished rooms at a very low rate .
it grew into an important power centre under the delhi sultan sikandar lodi , who shifted his capital from delhi in 1504 .
amber palace is a classic example of mughal & hindu architecture .
polo owes its origin to the british , even though it was first played in india .
however , the most convenient railhead is guwahati ( assam ) , which is very well connected to the rest of india .
kufri is an important tourist place because of its closeness with shimla .
dry , searing winds heat up the ground and make it difficult to venture outdoors .
the darshan to the temple done , we headed out of the city towards the mountain temple of jyotiba , another special pilgrimage spot .
a starkly remote terrain and scenery makes nagaland , a place worth a visit for those adventurous in spirit .
you re bound to enjoy the lagoons no matter what but mosquito repellent , drinking water , cottons and sun protection gear will probably help you enjoy them better .
rajasthali , rajasthan government handicrafts emporium and khadi bhandar are the major shopping places in mount abu .
the hindu epic mahabharata refers to it as agraban , part of brij bhoomi , the homeland of lord krishna .
one of the most impressive palaces constructed during the last half of the 19th century the lallgarh palace defies the bleak and rugged reality of the harsh thar desert around bikaner .
these andaman and nicobar islands are the paragon of beauty and present a landscape full with scenic and picturesque extravaganza .
mumtaz and shah jehan were married in 1612 and , over the next 18 years , had 14 children together .
london has the gift for creating cities within a city , which is why it does n't really need a mayor .
another important place of visit is murikkady which is a panorama of cardamom , coffee and pepper plantations .
madras now called as chennai is popularly regarded as the ` ` gateway to the south .
indulge in adventurous water sports or daydream on secluded , golden sands .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
it was another feat of accomplishment when the elevator to the third floor was added , traveling 160 meters to the top level .
the weather and the climate of arunachal pradesh are quite distinct from the rest of the country .
jahangir mahal , within the fort complex built in the 17th century to commemorate the visit of emperor jahangir .
spend lazy evenings in bed or swing to the folk dances .
he became a very powerful person , more so when the emperor jahangir married his daughter noor jahan .
the sadar club was built by the british about 100 years ago and the ambience is wonderful especially if you like a round of golf .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is one of the largest sanctuaries for birds in india .
the belur math shrine represents a church , mosque and temple when viewed from different angles .
the beauty of thar desert is best described with the help of sam sand dunes , located at a distance of 42 km from jaisalmer .
this complex is elegantly build and is one of the largest temple complexes in india .
an equestrian statue of chhatrapati shivaji and statue of swami vivekananda have been installed here .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
bindusagar lake situated to the north of the lingaraja temple is a lake called the bindusagar lake adding grace to bhubaneshwar and attracting many tourists .
trains from delhi , gwalior , jhansi and the south arrive here , it is closest to most good hotels , and has a tourist information counter .
india is a vast country with a rich cultural heritage and a diverse historical background .
prince khurram , as sahajahan was known before he became the mugal emperor , was a handsome twenty year old man , when he was betrothed to mumtaz .
it is said that the great hindustani classical musician mian tansen once sang raag deepak ( song of fire ) here and with the intensity of his music set the place alight .
it is the one and only wonder which does not require a description by early historians and poets .
the grand store brims with every name known to the fashion world from small couturiers to huge , successful concerns .
hill palace museum has an interesting collection of paintings , antique temple carvings and other royal artifacts .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor .
13 km away from aurangabad lays one of the country 's most impressive and majestic forts daulatabad , commanding the view from atop a pyramid-shaped hilltop .
this garden is very well planned and has artificial streams .
it was under a tree in the garden that keats wrote ode to a nightingale .
the aztec empire controlled vast territories from the yucatan peninsula to the pacific , with over 370 individual nations under their authority .
the world headquarters of the theosophical society , formed to facilitate and encourage the study of comparative religion .
being situated very close to the sea , cochin has a moderate climate .
raghurajpur is famous for their patta chitra painting , this artists village is 14 kms from puri , makes an interesting excursion .
they are both typical little market towns but tall coconut palms sway in the cool breeze , cashew plantations dot the surrounding countryside and scenic little houses line the streets .
american samoa , guam , us virgin islands .
heavy showers are experienced during the months june , july and august due to the south-west monsoon .
it was a well known 9 day feast held every year in the month of may .
on nag paharthe snake mountain the panchkund and the cave of saint agastya are located .
brazil 's landscape is as diverse as the people who inhabit it .
jaipur is surrounded by hills and dotted with forts , and is one of the links to the famed golden triangle of north india along with delhi and agra .
in 1846 the satirical magazine , punch , coined the term ' chamber of horrors .
there are several historical monuments in jodhpur , rajasthan , india that are worth visiting during your tours to this region .
architecture in india is a pulsating art from which continues even today .
covent garden is now home to numerous interesting shops and market stalls as well as a myriad of street entertainers who perform at every opportunity .
a large number of people , many from outside the region have thus made the city their permanent home .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
temple at somnathpur is embellished with a profusion of finely sculpted friezes and panels .
the lalbagh botanical garden , spread over 240 acres , was laid by hyder ali and developed by tipu sultan .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight .
the temple dedicated to 14 gods and goddesses , temple , church and the with burmese statues of the buddha are the other places worth a visit .
once the tranquil hilltop retreat of meditating rihis , mount abu was considered to be a holy spot , inhabited by no less than 330 million deferent gods and goddesses .
a charming village like atmosphere pervades the streets and lanes of barnes due in part to the conspicuous absence of a tube station .
and it was the imagination of poets and ancient historians that blended all these elements together to produce one of the world wonders .
at the road junction next to the houses of parliament is parliament square .
straddling the equator in western south america , ecuador has territories in both the northern and the southern hemispheres .
built during the same period as the university , its importance is heightened .
the terrain that india provides from the deserts to the beaches , to the mountains tests not only the skills of the realists but also their mettle .
until independence , the city was the seat of the maharajas of mysore , a princely state covering most of karnataka .
it was in 1818 that two youthful assistant collectors of coimbatore , whish and kindersley , made it to the made it to the nilgiris plateau .
there is a tourist dictionary written for ordinary citizens .
murud is today popular for its alluring beach , whispering casuarinas , coconut and betel palms , and an ancient fort .
today , polo is not just restricted to the royalty and the indian army , many companies and firms too patronize the sport .
the northern side is occupied by writers ' building .
palika bazaar another famous underground shopping centre is located in delhi .
the palace is eye catching by its whiteness which comes from the granite stone brought from italy for the construction .
by air there are flights from kolkata ( daily ) and guwahati ( triweekly ) to agartala .
arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the palace , if you live in the uk , otherwise arrangements can be made through your embassy .
shah jahan s cenotaph is higher and to the left it has a pen box inscribed on it , which symbolizes a male ruler .
there is always cool , fresh breeze that makes even the warmest months bearable .
the present population of ooty is 78 , 277 and comprises of todas , badagas , tamils , keralites and mysoreans .
visit the sheesh mahal or the hall of victory glittering with mirrors and ascend the fort on elephant back .
a thrill minute adventure sport where split-second decisions can literally make or mar , heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
fateh prakash palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture .
the tiled floors , curved wooden ceiling , beautifully crafted doors and specially created pools add to the ambience of grandeur .
the himalayas which have nearly fourteen thousands glaciers are one of the largest continental areas under ice .
arunachal pradesh , one of the most sparsely populated state of india , covers an area of 83743 sq. kms .
it is an ideal getaway for picnic while traveling between dalhousie and chamba .
this temple is considered to be an example of the excellent architectural skill and acumen of the craftsmen of ancient india .
in lothal excavations hae brought to light an ancient port complete with dockyard measuring 218x37 meters connected to sea through river bhagava .
it consists of arched vaults which are located on checkered cube-like foundations .
amidst a refreshing and aesthetically appealing environment , the park offers a one-stop solution integrating office , production , commercial , residential and recreational needs in a single location .
bangalore is well connected to delhi , mumbai , chennai , hyderabad and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
rai praveen mahal is set in landscaped gardens , a brick palace for the poetess and musician rai praveen , who captivated raja indramani in the 17th century .
it has some beautiful bungalows owned by mumbai s elite for weekend gateways .
kumarakom enjoys a tropical climate almost round the year .
queen mary lived here as a widow and her son , edward viii told her of this intention to abdicate in this house .
these marvel of carvings built between 11th and 13th century a.d. are dedicated to the jain tirthankars .
john sullivan , the man who founded ooty , planted this oak over 150 years ago in front of what was then his residence , stone house .
arunachal pradesh mainly consists of verdant mountainous ranges sloping to the plains of assam , and has the largest area in the north-east region .
ganesha chaturthi is one of the most important festivals celebrated in mumbai .
early excavations at kausambi revealed an important buddhist site where the buddha himself came to preach .
of these , the todas , who are vegetarians , tall and fair , have dwindled in number .
the orrisa state museum has a rich collection of sculptures , coins , copper plates , stone inscriptions , lithic and bronze age tools , rare manuscripts written on palm leaves , traditional and folk musical instruments .
the central market building in paris , les halles , was erected in 1853 by victor baltard and felix callet .
the entire city is spread over a 12 km long ridge commanding the view of terraced hillsides and cultivations .
the old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
chandigarh is well linked with its principal gataway city , delhi , by frequent super fast trains .
mohammed bin tughlaq renamed it daulatabad , the city of fortune and made it his southern military operations base .
jama masjid in delhi is the largest mosque in india , and was built by shah jahan in 1956 ad .
in his left hand , he holds a scepter inlaid with every kind of metal , with an eagle perched on the scepter .
the two rivers along with the mythical river saraswati meet in this holy city creating the sangam ( confluence ) also known as the triveni ( meeting of three rivers .
the region around bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations , the two notable ones being shivaganga ( 4599 ft. high ) and savandurga .
there is also large number of birds , which can seen from an exclusive bird watching point and also nice sunset can seen from the fort of park .
the horse marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
the statue was so high that visitors described the throne more than zeus body and features .
saraswati festival , also known as nanaratri , dussehra is held between september and october .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
on diamond harbour road , the gurusaday museum has a small but rich collection of the folk arts and crafts on undivided bengal .
false gateways , which may be appropriately called water pavilions , have been constructed in the centre of the north and south sides .
bhakra dam is symbolic of resurgent india 's plenty and prosperity .
the dance is usually performed on specially put up stages in connected with temple festivals .
there are five of the domes ( kalash ) and they were established in 1914 .
some of the historical monuments are the mehrangarh fort , jaswant thada , sadar market , umaid bhawan palace , maha mandir temples and the osian jain temples .
punjab suffered the most destruction and damage at the time of partition of india .
the more expensive and modern hotels are in the civil lines area .
jakrem is a popular health resort having hot springs of sulphur water , believed to have curative medicinal properties .
the dwarf orange trees and numerous rose plants are special attraction in the garden , the fountains add to the beauty of the place .
skand and some other puranas rank ayodhya as one of the seven most sacred cities of india .
manali is referred to as the ` ` cradle between the lesser himalaya .
the kanha national park is served by an extensive network ( a little over 700 km ) of generally well-maintained roads .
tipu sultan preserved the ganesha temple as a testament to his religious tolerance .
udaipur is the historic capital of former kingdom of mewar and now the administrative headquarters of udaipur districts .
local buses , taxis and rickshaws are available for local journeys in silvassa and up to vapi and bhilad .
brazilians enjoy a good party whatever the circumstances .
referred to as the venice of the east by travelers from across the world , this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life .
in ancient times the region was called dakshin kosala .
bikaner is located in the north of rajasthan popularly known as a camel country .
sangam , as the confluence is called , is the venue of many sacred fairs and rituals , and attracts thousands of pilgrims throughout the year .
in the more recent time agra came into prominence when sikandar lodi made it his capital city in 1501 .
all the while , sullivan was pepping his superiors in madras with letters about the unusually temperate and healthy climate in the nilgiris and its suitability as a sanatorium .
the national gallery of modern art in mumbai exhibits the work of prominent contemporary indian artists .
so vast are the falls and their setting that it is difficult to grasp their true grandeur and for this reason , they are perhaps best seen from the air .
the badagas , who speak a mixture of kannada and tamil , are said to have migrated from mysore 400 years ago .
albert hall contains a fine collection of sculptures , paintings , decorative art objects , natural history specimens , an egyptian mummy and a celebrated persian garden carpet .
rio is the hottest of destinations , particularly around carnival time .
the line was worked by madras railway , to start with .
one of the main markets of delhi , chandni chowk was once lined with beautiful fountains , but today the place is very crowded and congested .
big towns are not usually on the route though there is no definite route that you have to adopt .
another building , the ( palace of winds ) allowed the ladies of the harem to catch the cool evening breeze .
located on the banks of the vembanad lake , the bird sanctuary is spread across 14 acres .
popularly known as baby taj , this is the tomb of mirza ghiyath begh , who was wazir or chief minister in emperor jahangir s court .
museum of kerala history is one of the best looks into the history of kerala .
the last hindu ruler of kashmir was udyan dev .
when daniel defoe visited westminster hall during his tour of 1724 , he said it resembled a barn .
krakatau ( krakatoa ) volcano was located on the island of rakata , 40 km off the west coast of java .
once the largest princely state in india , hyderabad had its own flag , currency , railway , and postal system , before being incorporated into the indian nation .
14kms from as a barrage is dispatcher , an aquatic complex with a swimming pool , located at the foothills of shivalik hills and on the bank of river yamuna .
karnataka also has some of the most interesting historic architecture in india .
ooty is used to be popular summer and weekend getaway for the britishers during the colonial days .
he then sang the monsoon raga , megh malhar invoking the rains and so doused the flames .
the best time to visit agra is between november and march .
bangalore is one of asia 's fastest growing cities .
the bull temple has been built by kempegowda .
it is possible that more valuable data would be found , when extensive surface diggings are completed .
the fort of khimsar has of lot of diversity in its architecture .
the city also became a hotbed of political activity during the struggle for independence , hosting the first indian national congress in 1885 .
at the entrance of the harbor of the mediterranean island of rhodes in greece .
it is virtually unaltered today and is one of only two complete buildings remaining from the medieval palace of westminster .
however , the buildings open to the public have some superb architectural sights .
saha jahan s cenotaph is to the left and is higher than that of his beloved which rests immediately below the dome .
chandigarh is one of the youngest cities in india and the main languages spoken are hindi and punjabi .
the aryan influence over this area dates back to the period before the rig veda .
other illusionary effects have been accounted for in the geometry of the tomb and the tall minarets .
lincoln 's inn fields is a tranquil free filled square to the west of lincoln 's inn .
amber fort was the ancient capital of the state .
while shopping in aimer , one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing rajasthani culture and style .
the kalindikhal trek promises to be a rare experience , even for the most seasoned trekkers .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
aizwal with guwahati , silchar & calcutta are connected by indian airlines flights to major cities in india .
fatehpur sikri was built by the mughal emperor akbar during 1564 a.d. .
kenwood house with its outdoor summer concerts and fine collection of art is worth a visit as is the nearby spaniards inn .
to the south there is huge and beautiful kalyana mantap where festivities take place .
over the centuries , the golden sand stone fortress witnessed many battles between the bhattis , the mughals and the rathors of jodhpur .
situated 60 kms from bangalore , at a height of 1478m above sea level , is the nandi hills resort .
it has long been believed that the colossus stood in front of the mandraki harbor , one of many in the city of rhodes , straddling its entrance .
the other shopping centers are new market , ritz market , bazar bungkawn , thakthing bazar , burma lane and solomon cave .
50km from kottayam , aranmula is the site of the splendid onam festival boat races , usually in early september .
you can also see the royal decree of prince jehangir advising rai singh to immediately proceed to delhi as emperor akbar is dying .
the white mosque is the tomb of saint haji ali , a wealthy muslim who renounced the world and proceeded to mecca .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
while on wildlife tour to the periyar national park one can easily spot large herds of indian elephant and the nilgiri langur .
on november 17 , 1869 , the canal was officially inaugurated by khedive ismail in an extravagant and lavish ceremony .
thus the city has a fairly large number of people who are retired from active life and others who are here for exclusive pleasure seeking .
snake boat processions are taken out on the first two days and competitive boat race takes place on the third day .
this hill station in india is another congregation point for nature lovers , lovers of sylvan surroundings and the religious sorts with a swathe of historical monasteries located here .
delhi was the focal point for the first war of independence in 1857 .
emile nouguier and maurice koechlin , the two chief engineers in eiffel 's company , had the idea for a very tall tower in june 1884 .
bhimakali temple sarahan-history of himachal pradesh .
if you are going to bikaner then do n't miss the beautiful diwan-e-khas ( private audience hall ) , anup mahal , badal mahal , gaj mandir and hawa mahal .
45 km away from the desert city of jaisalmer , desert natinal park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills .
also situated here are the high court , the government museum , the technology museum , the govt. aquarium and the jawaharlal bal bhavan .
though the main buildings are not open to the public , the chapel built by indigo jones is .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree covered hills .
close to mahabalipuram and 44 kms from chennai is the crocodile breeding and research centre run by romulus whittaker .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the territory enjoys a very pleasant climate from november to march , which is actually the best time for a visit .
the monuments of interest in jalandhar include 800-year-old imam nasir 's mausoleum , devi talab , a tank ( 200-year-old ) and 400-year-old juma masjid , another tourist attraction is shiva mandir dating back to the lodhi era .
during your tours to historical places in gujarat , india you must visit dandi that is a tiny place on the seaside .
ina museum has on display photographs , articles , records and other memorabilia related to the indian national army .
the ground floor is divided up into sumptuous leather upholstered booths , whilst downstairs the ambience is slightly calmer with plenty of room and a feeling of exclusivity .
most of the state stands on the high deccan plateau which stretches east some 800 km. from the western ghats .
situated near the gateway of india , it was designed in the indo-saracen style to commemorate the king s first visit to india .
mumbai is india 's busiest international airport and is served by all major international airlines .
the sarcophagus is oriented in accordance with the compass directions , and is only about 1 cm smaller in dimensions than the chamber entrance .
ooty , this beautiful botanical paradise was first brought to the public eye by john sullivan , collector of coimbatore district in 1819 .
adjoining madame tussaud 's is the london planetarium .
in chicago in the united states , steel started to be employed to erect buildings of enormous height .
that 's more than the turnover of the next three largest centers , new york , tokyo and singapore combined .
other attractions in the itinerary followed by india travel destinations are the buddhist center of worship , tawang monastery and the immensely popular parsuram kund .
dera baba bharbhag singh place has famous gurudwara where thousand of sikhs visit every year to receive the blessing of baba bharbhag singh .
in agra the main shopping areas are the sadar bazar , kinari bazar and munro road .
on the corner near parliament square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a member of parliament wants a taxicab .
rajkot is mainly known for the handicrafts , bead and mirror work , tie and dye fabric ( bandhani ) , silk embroidery and appliqu work .
as her children had died young , she transmitted the crown to sangramraj , son of her brother udairaj , the ruler of lohara ( poonch ) .
this palace was built for the third princess during 1910-11 and is beautiful to view .
though the badagas were essentially agriculturists , they are socially , educationally and even economically advanced now .
accessed from allahabad by taxis or private cars , you can also reach kausambi by a daily bus from the leader road bus stand .
the walls and pillars of the temple are very delicately and intricately carved and depict scenes from hindu mythology .
thousands gather at these holy shrines during festive occasions .
colaba causeway in downtown mumbai is another great area for shopping for shoes , clothes , bags and everything you can think of and much that you can t .
home to pandit jawaharlal nehru the first prime minister of independent india it witnessed many important landmarks in the freedom movement .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
kashmiries are justly proud of the literary glories of their land .
on the first floor facing eastern direction there is ` ` durbar hall ` ` or court yard .
the mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of bhandeshwar & sandeshwar temples .
legend says the mirror was also used to detect and burn enemy ships before they could reach the shore .
in all 28 kind of rare , semi precious and precious stones were used for inlay work in the taj mahal .
jaisalmer , jodhpur and bikaner are known for the sand dunes but the most popular among them is jaisalmer .
though the nilgris formed part of coimbatore district , it was separated into an independent district in 1868 .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
auli offers a panoramic view of himalayan peaks like nanda devi , kamet , mana parvat and dunagiri see mingly only a snowball throw away , auli offers perfect skiing conditions .
nandgaon is famous for its ganapati temple and the annual fair held in honor of this elephant headed god every february .
the early 13th century saw the first stone bridge , which for many centuries was the only means of crossing the thames in london .
there are up state road transport ( upsrtc ) as well as private buses plying to and from agra .
a visit to the dam is a must for the breathtaking scenery that it has to offer .
one of the finest examples of high victorian gothic architecture , it is the headquarters of the central railways and is one of the finest railway stations in the world .
the best months for water sports are october and march .
the magh mela is the annual version of the kumbh and ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from makar sankranti in jan.and ends at maha shivratri in feb .
they are fairly comfortable but it is advisable to carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers especially if you are looking at budget accommodation .
over 200 varieties of birds and 100 types of butterflies can be seen in periyar national park .
restaurants in delhi offer a variety of cuisines continental , chinese , thai , japanese , north indian , south indian , mughlai to name a few .
located in the museum compound is this sree chitra art gallery featuring an eclectic collection of works by roerich and raja ravi verma .
there are local buses but you may not want to risk these and for the rest , public transportation is really quite inadequate .
in kanha national park there is always a mid-day break , so that employees may have lunch and rest and the animals may have a respite too .
62 kms from allahabad , next to the yamuna river sits the ancient town of .
it was the most beautiful structure on earth .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
fakim sanctuary is close to the myanmar border and receives high rainfall and is inhabited by tigers and hoolock gibbons .
all these are fed by snow from the himalayas and countless rivers and rivulets .
more recent archaeological excavations at the ancient city of babylon in iraq uncovered the foundation of the palace .
this huge temple complex comprises of a sabha mandap , prasad and a kund .
the powerhouse is located at the toe of the main dam , most of it on the river bed and the rest on the diversion channel .
the fort william was named after king william lli of england , and in the fort are a church , market , post and telegraph office , cinema , swimming pool , boxing stadium , football and firing range .
built by the british , connaught place is quite close to the new delhi railway station and a unique shopping spot .
some of these are lothal , hriday kunj , and sun temple at modhera , bardoli , kirti mandir and dandi .
a wide range of boats are available at the boat house to suit varied tastes and budgets .
india was once a collection of princely kingdoms mysore palace where feudal traditions still carry on amidst forts and palace hotels .
one of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of jaisalmer , lodurva is known for the famous jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year .
valmiki ashram is located at a height and accessible by a flight of stairs known as the stairway to heaven .
a cannon and a statue of nandi ( shiva 's mount ) are located inside the temple complex .
persepolis continued to flourish under the later achaemenian kings , until it was burned and destroyed by alexander the great in 330 bc .
india is considered the cradle of modern polo .
minjar is the most popular fair of chamba which is attended by a large number of people from every nook and corner of the district .
arunachal finds mention in the literature of kalika purna and mahabharata .
indian airlines connect hyderabad with bhubaneswar , bangalore , mumbai , calcutta , delhi , chennai , nagpur and vishakapatnam .
archaeologists are still struggling to gather enough evidence before reaching the final conclusions about the location of the gardens , their irrigation system , and their true appearance .
the nagaland state museum is a one stop treasure house for a glimpse into naga culture through history .
his court was a centre of luxury and splendor .
sanjay gandhi national park , previously known as the borivali national park , this protected forest area is on the northern outskirts of mumbai .
the shantinath temple is again comparatively modern and was built a century ago with raw materials from older temples .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
the kannadiga new year day of yugadi that falls on the second half of march or early april is celebrated with devotion and delight .
the shops at this lovely market sell traditional stuff such as traditional caps , shawls and rugs among other things .
foreign language audio commentary is available in french , spanish , german , dutch , italian , russian and japanese .
it is best to go by yourself , and bargain hard .
the youth hostel association of india runs camps at dalhousie ( chamba ) and at kullumanali .
the most distinctive features are its white willow pattern tiles of which no two are alike .
it looks very much like a tortoise and it is called ' kurma peeth ( kurma tortoise .
please insist on a mosquito net to ensure you are not vulnerable to the malarial mosquito pack light cotton clothes for summer and light woolens for winter .
renowned for its architectural magnificence and aesthetic beauty , taj counts among man 's proudest creations and is invariably included in the list of the world 's foremost wonders .
from the top , you get a commanding view of the entire fort complex , and were used by akbar and his consorts .
it is very easy to slip away here through the centuries into the grandeur and intrigues of the mughal court .
the large auditorium is used for major cultural events in mysore .
politics has also persistently been dogged by alleged and sometimes proven corruption .
there is huge masonry instruments of extraordinary precision located inside the jantar mantar that can still be used accurately .
the galleries have working models in popular science , motive power , mining , metals , petroleum , electricity , communications and electronics .
taj appears as if it is about to rise into the sky .
these towers are believed to represent the five peaks of mount meru , the home of gods and center of the hindu universe .
climbers are not oblivious to heights .
a unique opportunity to explore the small villages of rajasthan , camel safari is most exciting and adventurous .
the legs of the throne were decorated with sphinxes and winged figures of victory .
there has been a church or abbey on this spot since saxon times and below the church can be seen a section of floor from a roman house .
apart from its beautiful beaches and unique and varied ecosystems , the gal pagos islands are home to towering active volcanoes .
king george v , who was prince of wales , laid the foundation stone of this museum in 1905 .
adjacent to the fishing nets is the vasco da gama square , a narrow walkway with little stalls that serve fresh seafood and tender coconuts .
border disputes between chile and bolivia have been a recurrent element in chile 's history ever since .
certain climbs can often prove grueling and tough , but the magic of the beautiful landscape , the cool weather and pure air keeps the climber s spirit up .
polo facilities are on the rise and polo holidays in india too are in vogue .
elephant safaris are exciting for those in search of an experience of a lifetime .
the forest area is a tropical region , a mixture of deciduous , semi-evergreen and evergreen ` shoals ` .
the egyptians reclaimed the canal upon the 1973 arab-israeli war , and the re-opening ceremony took place in 1975 .
they maintained a good relationship with the mauryans so that they can remain independent for a long time .
for one , it has been a popular hill retreat right from the days of tipu sultan who is said to have visited here occasionally .
india s camel safaris take you back in time to a more leisurely age , and make for a memorable experience .
in maharashtra marathi and konkani is spoken , english is often understood .
shopping in udaipur is always a delightful experience and it displays excellent handicrafts and works developed by local traders .
dahanu road is the nearest railhead , which is just 21 / 2 hours from mumbai .
after the decline of the guptas , several small kingdoms ruled this hilly state and established their power in its different regions .
it is important to time your trip otherwise you can get stranded once the tide comes in .
meaning the ' centre of arts ' , the kalakshetra was established to train people in the traditional dance form , bharatanataym .
dalhousie is a summer hill resort par excellence , founded by lord dalhousie in the british days in 1850 as a sanatorium .
the eighth guru sri harkishan had stayed here for a few months as guest of raja jai singh .
most of the state is a high plateau and in summer it can be very dry and hot .
national art gallery and government museum has a fine collection of items in various sections of geology , archaeology , numismatics , anthropology , botany and zoology .
bhuntar gives access into the adjoining valleys of the parvati and sainj .
mysore was the only highly industrialized and progressive native state in india in steel , silk , soaps and hydro-electricity. .
panipat is an industrial town and is known for its handloom products .
at kangra itself , a fort and some temples are the only remnants of its glorious past .
the queen receives visiting heads of state at the palace and it is here that the queen holds garden parties and bestows knighthoods and other honors .
there is , firstly , the pleasure of a gentle canoe trip in a lightweight alloy metal craft , which holds two to three people .
prince of wales museum which opened in 1923 has an impressive collection of artifacts from places such as elephanta island , jogeshwari caves , and the indus valley .
the state of himachal pradesh was called ' deva bhoomi ' or the land of the gods .
fortunately for the world , the game polo survived in a few remote mountainous enclaves of the subcontinent , notably gilgit , chitral , ladakh and manipur .
this was also the year that ooty was made a military cantonment .
at the same time , sullivan laid himself open to charges that he had used his position in government to acquire enormous personal wealth .
known as tirtha raj or the king of all pilgrimages , allahabad was believed to have been chosen by lord brahma for the sacred confluence .
in front of this hall is a courtyard with a pachisi court ( a game like ludo played with dice ) where the emperor played using slave girls as live pieces .
indian travel destinations helps out honeymooners in india who are in search for a real taste of the goan life and its people .
agra on cross roads of national highway 2 , 3 and 11 , is excellently connected to all parts of the country .
during the monsoons , the park is a lush green haven with cascading waterfalls .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
the victoria falls offer an inescapable closeness to the natural elements .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that serves your needs take advantage of it .
the royal orient is an experience in itself , on one of the most exotic trains in the world which takes travelers back in the age of maharajas .
but , basically , from railway restrooms to shack establishments to air-conditioned doubles with attached bathrooms , its all there .
a visit to akbar s monument opens before one , the completeness of akbar s personality as completely as the taj mahal does of mumtaz mahal s .
if it were , you could see the cells where prisoners were held awaiting trial in the mansion house magistrates court .
there is a nandi ( shivas divine bull ) half buried in the hill .
important sites worth visiting in gokul include the gokulnath temple , raja thakur temple , gopal lalji temple and the morwala temple .
from guwahati to aizawl , the capital of mizoram , it is a 506 km drive and there are plenty of buses and taxis that cover the distance .
until the war of 1982 , the rainy , windswept falkland islands were a forgotten remnant of the old british empire .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
over the next 100 years , colombian politics were dominated by the conservative-liberal feud , which often broke out into warfare .
the structure is one of the finest examples of architecture of its time and tells a saga of the last remnants of a dying empire .
these beautiful birds with their distinctive red beaks and facial patches fly over 6400 km from their summer retreats in siberia .
sariska national park , the second tiger reserve of rajasthan with 27 , 300 hectares holds dry deciduous forest .
aligarh city is also noted for its handicrafts and metal wares .
a major landmark howrah bridge , now so much a part of the city that calcutta is inconceivable without it .
ajmer is a centre of culture and education , the british chose it for its prestigious mayo college a school exclusively for indian nobility .
blooming forth in perfumes of flowers , in the riot of colors of multi-hued birds , this is join bath .
the tradition of pyramid building started in ancient egypt as a sophistication of the idea of a mastaba or ` ` platform ` ` covering the royal tomb .
the futuristic park is built to exacting international standards , supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure .
jaipur is well connected to delhi , bombay , and ahemadabad through regular flights of indian airlines .
french guiana is also a land of social progress and a symbol of modernity as is demonstrated in kourou , the main french space centre .
on a weekend , the majority of ancient streets ( which include part of the roman watling street ) are empty and silent .
monsoon showers between june and september bring some respite , while winters get cold with night temperatures dipping to about 8 centigrade .
pawan hans provides helicopter service between guwahati and nnaharlagun ( itanagar ) , deluxe buses are available from guwahati .
these waters irrigate the whole garden saturating the roots of plants and keeping the whole area moist .
in the domain of architecture , the charm of kashmir , apart from its magnificent natural scenery , lies in its temples and fine arts .
the jami masjid was the first building to be constructed within the fort .
ajaipal chauhan founded ajmer in the seventh century .
april to june and october to november are the best time to visit the town .
the british government leased the islands to the east india company , who developed it into a thriving trading port .
honeymooners in india would love to partake of these honeymoon destinations in india .
today it 's a teeming metropolis , commercial hub of an old civilization seeking to find .
chennai , the gracious capital city of tamil nadu is the fourth largest metropolis in india .
a major tourist destination in the indian map today , bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century bce .
until a new building was commissioned in 1887 , there was no church on the site for almost 100 years .
an enchanting backwater destination , kumarakom offers visitors many leisure options .
imphal derives its name from yumpham , which means homestead .
the lambeth walk was actually a local market but the name later became famous as the popular song and dance routine from the musical ' me and my girl .
average temperature during the winter months range from 15 to 21 degree celsius and 22 to 30 degree celsius during monsoon .
cochin proudly boasts a rich cultural heritage , but is one of the most fast paced and modern cities in india .
mysore is a major craft centre with numerous shops selling an incredible range of ivory , sandalwood , rosewood and teak carvings and furniture .
` ` the garden is quadrangular , and each side is four plethoras long .
of the nearly 500 akbari buildings built in the bengal and gujarati traditions only a few have survived , arrayed in a band on the riverfront .
the gateways reflect a curious hybrid of different styles of architecture hindu , muslim , christian and a patent mixture of akbar s typical style .
it may also serve him as a means of transportation in his afterlife journey according to ancient egyptian beliefs .
bhojpur was founded by raja bhoj and has the ruins of the shiva temple .
the city is also a welcome departure from other large cities of india in its spacious layout and regulated life .
patan is an important weaving centre for geometrically patterned patola sarees .
first built in 1663 the site is the oldest in the world to have been continually in use as a theatre .
the saint encouraged people from india to settle in the valley .
parliament house is the center of power and politicians decide the fate of the indian democracy here .
the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
a vessel from newly independent argentina was sent in 1820 to establish a permanent settlement but was driven out by a british expedition in 1832 .
low hills along the beach offer you extraordinary views of sunrise and sunset .
till the advent of karkota dynasty ( beginning of 8th century ) the gonanda dynasty gave kashmir only two notable rulers viz. meghvahan and pravansein .
lal bagh , these 240-acre gardens were laid out during the muslim era ( 18th century ) by hyder ali and tipu sultan , 200 years ago .
large sums of money began to be turned into political power and leading politicians increasingly became tainted by connections with drug money .
locked on rose street , vasco house is one of the oldest portuguese houses in fort kochi and is believed to have been the residence of vasco da gama .
shimla is connected by a narrow guage railway line with kalka 90 kms , which in turn is connected with the major cities in india .
boparais organization is situated on chandigarh shimla highway .
32 kms is north-east of jaipur , ramgarh is a favorite spot of the locals when the huge artificial lake is filled in the rainy season .
the wide street that runs from trafalgar square towards the city is the strand .
gorai and manori , a little further away , are more crowded with revelers and are famous for all night beach parties .
marble arch was marooned in the middle of this roundabout in the mid 19th century .
but strangely enough , harsha 's career became a record of follies and misdeeds .
the water is clear and beautiful , and the beaches at corbyn s cove , wandoor , jolly boy and cinque offer an excellent sea for swimming .
however , there is a garden which all and sundry may enjoy for part of the day .
the oldest part of the palace of westminster is westminster hall , dating back to the year 1097 .
the first of peru 's many military coups was in 1914 .
this small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic .
india harbours eighty percent of the entire population of the one hundered rhinoceros in the world .
chilka lake is situated southwest of puri and this is the largest fresh water lake in asia ( 65 kms long , 8-20 kms wide , about 2 m deep .
georgian in character and adorned with 800 acres of rolling heath land , hampstead has always been a centre for literary activity and the intelligentsia .
some of the sculptures survived and are today on display at the british museum in london .
you are in the heart of conservative india , so perhaps you won t want to use the stripy bare more clothes the summer definitely warrants .
it ranked as the tallest structure on earth for more than 43 centuries , only to be surpassed in height in the nineteenth century ad .
piccadilly circus is a rather untidy , traffic-choked place , but is something of a central hub in the west end and a common meeting place .
war cemetery is a symbolic memorial raised as citation for the supreme sacrifices made by the officers of the second world war .
humayun s tomb is built in the 16th century as a memorial to the mughal emperor .
allahabad has been rich in numerous victorian and georgian buildings made in synthesis with indian architectural traditions .
the platform in the front of the mosque is of red sandstone .
while the temple of jamwa mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities , its beautiful landscape makes it an idyllic picnic spot .
cascading down the cliff is a spectacular waterfall , which at the bottom feeds a natural pool called the saptakunda .
choice of accommodation in fatehpur sikri is limited .
during the great fire of london in 1666 , samuel pepys climbed to the top of the church 's brick tower to watch the fire 's progress .
climate ahmedabad has a very hot and humid climate with summer temperatures soaring up to 45 celsius .
the king 's sarcophagus is made of red granite , as are the interior walls of the king 's chamber .
first occupied by the french in 1764 , the islands were quickly ceded to spain , which then ruled the adjacent territory in latin america .
the main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surmounted by statues representing justice and mercy .
in 1889 the tower was a colossal fairground attraction , but during the 1920s it became a symbol of modernity and the avant-garde , inspiring poets such as guillaume apollinaire , film-makers , photographers and numerous painters .
the elephanta festival held in february on the elephanta island is a festival of classical indian dance and music organised by the mtdc .
one of the largest and best snake parks in india , the chennai snake park attracts visitors of all ages .
trains on this line stop at the allahabad junction station in the civil lines area .
in port blair itself , one can see the cellular jail , built by the british in the beginning of the century it is now a memorial to indian prisoners .
the oldest part of the palace of westminster is westminster hall , dating back to the year 1097 .
lonavala and khandala are twin resorts just over 100 kms from the rat race of mumbai .
near coonoor , it is humid with pines , blue gum ( eucalyptus globulus ) and cypress trees .
significant historic moments of the past 2000 years are depicted through life size figures .
the annual urs at dargah of khwaja moinuddin chishti is held on a grand scale and attracts pilgrims from all over the world .
originally excavated in 191011 , the site revealed evidence of ancient habitation and was a major trade centre .
kullu valley is a larger entity with manali nestled in the valley and intersected by a gurgling stream of river beas running amidst the town .
kheria airport ( airport of agra ) is about 6 km from the agra city centre and easily accessible by taxis and auto rickshaws at nominal rates .
chamba is also famous for its local festivals .
this was the biggest contract in his entire career in business , and also the one with the greatest risk .
the kushan kings also built many temples and vihars .
the ajmer lake , situated on the edge of desert and surrounded by hills on the three sides is separated from ajmer by nag paharthe snake mountain .
children are particularly fascinated by the mysteries of science .
located at the heart of the desert , this city of rajasthan is the majestic jewel of rajasthan 's eternal crown .
from its building to its destruction lies a time span of merely 56 years .
the innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in jammu and kashmir , himachal pradesh and uttar pradesh are ideal for angline and trout fishing .
upstream of the krishna river is nagarjunakonda associated with the famous buddhist scholar of 2nd century , nagarjuna .
goddess ramchandi , the presiding deity of the konark region is worshipped here and the place is ideal for weekend picnics .
therefore we have adequately accurate knowledge of its location and appearance .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is 85 kms from chennai .
today , mathura is a city of temples and shrines abustle with the thousands of devotees who come to visit the city of lord krishna .
the dewan-i-am or the place of public hearing had a wall paneled with marble in laid with precious stone which were removed during the mutiny of 1857 .
the indian himalayan range is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular and impressive mountain ranges in the world .
the gardens adjoining the palace are delightful .
foreign tourists need a special permit to visit the andaman islands .
a small shaivite shrine and a temple of dattatreya situated on the top of the hill are the two important points to visit .
the largest road leading from piccadilly however is the graceful regent street designed by john nash in 1812 as a boulevard for shopping , and still used as such .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
the temple of nageshwarnath is said to have been established by kush the son of rama .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
the island fortress of haidar ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
for all these reasons , paraguay is definitely a country worth discovering .
the core area called the ` ` island city ` ` has the most expensive real estate in all of india .
the raghunathji temple was constructed in the 17th century by raja jagat singh of kulu , india .
remnants of hinduism , buddhism , jainism and islam can still be found in ayodhya .
though alibag is great for sunbathing , going for long walks and building sand castles , the waters are not very safe for anything more than paddling .
machiya safari park lies on the way to jaisalmer , about 1km from kailana lake .
by the middle of the 18th century , the royal family moved into the fort when a new zenana or ladies residence was added to the existing construction .
the people also suffered from famine , and plague as well , and a considerable section of people became victims of these calamities .
the whole mass is supported on stone columns . . . streams of water emerging from elevated sources flow down sloping channels .
although it is not known how the blocks were put in place , several theories have been proposed .
kullu has a lot of potential for the growth of tourism , as there are quite a few ancient forts , old palaces , havelis and a number of other buildings .
international dolls museum situated in bal bhawan , sector 23 , and the international dolls museum contains more than 300 dolls from nearly every country in the world .
ayodhya is pre-eminently a city of temples yet , all places of worship here are not only of hindu religion .
tea gardens at munnar the other hill states of himachal pradesh and jammu and kashmir provides a breathtaking variety of the himalayan splendor .
ajmer is connected with bus from all places like jaipur , agra , aligarh , abu road , bikaner , bharatpur , barmer , haridwar , chittorgarh , jodhpur , jaisalmer and nagaur .
khas mahal the khas mahal , where the emperor slept , had cavities in its flat roof to insulate it from the hot winds of summer .
the kangra valley is one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalyas .
nishagandhi dance festival held in february each year , ( this festival ) pays tribute to indian classical dance .
with a lot to offer the avid tourist including incredible deccan mughal architecture , the most pleasant feature of aurangabad is its inhabitants .
you could arrange fun day trips or get away on a weekend .
it is said that mumtaz mahal on her deathbed had herself asked her husband to create a symbol of their love for posterity .
the royal edifices take you to the magnificence of the bygone era .
built by rana kumbha in mid 15th century , khumbalgarh is the second important bastion of mewar , after chittaurgarh .
mickey mouse , miami vice , sleepless in seattle thanks to cinema and tv , we all have impressions of the united states of america .
delhi offers a variety of public transport , yellowtop taxis and auto-rickshaws ( seats three ) are available every where .
it has several virgin attractions in protected areas such as kanger valley national park , barnawapara , sitanadi , udanti and achanakmar sanctuaries .
in 1961 , it was made an integral part of india and was a part of erstwhile union territory of goa , daman and diu .
100 km south of agartala is where excavations are still in progress .
gonanda was killed in a battle along with his son in india , and at the time of the commencement of the mahabharat war , gonanda ii was ruling kashmir .
sightseeing in the agartala stands on the banks of a small lake surrounded by huge mughal gardens .
the lofty battlements of the agra fort cast its protective shadow over the far stretching mansions of nobles and princes built along the riverfront .
relax in the award winning brew house cafn and take time to enjoy magnificent views over london 's skyline .
after goa was given statehood in 1987 , daman and diu was made a separate union territory .
an unbelievably beautiful paradise of mangrove forests , emerald green paddy fields and coconut groves interspersed with enchanting waterways and canals adorned with white lilies this is kumarakom .
tourism department has identified a number of new sites for creation of tourist complexes .
nartiang s greatest attraction is to be found off the small road that runs amid forest , streams and hills in a quiet and shaded glen .
the london transport museum is a great place to take the children with heaps of interactive exhibits .
the tower s golden lighting adds 20 , 000 flashing lights for a glittering performance of light on the hour .
ecuador 's coastal region ( the western lowlands ) is made up of fertile plains , rolling hills , and sedimentary basins traversed by a plethora of rivers that rush from the heights of the andes to the pacific ocean .
some tour operators organize elephant safaris between jaipur and pushkar .
no visit to the state capital shimla is complete without visiting jakhu hill .
men should wear formal cotton shirts with a tie and trousers if the weather is warm otherwise a business suit is appropriate .
for a period of 13 years from 1830 , it remained part of malabar district .
this may also include theatres , a film studio and a hotel .
india travel destinations organizes tours to idukki to let the interested souls decipher its beauty and discreet wilderness .
there are many tourist places one can enjoy seeing they are birla planetorium , state museum , zoological park , bird sanctuary and more .
the main building is built of grey marble stone and is three stories .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
khajuraho s divine sculptures are a tribute to life itself , embodying its colorful , joyous and yet sublime essence .
he was filled with an unquenchable thirst of world conquest .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
haji ali mosque is the tomb of a muslim saint who died while on pilgrimage to mecca .
finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
shimla is the best loved hill station in india and has been a favorite since british troops set up camp here in 1819 .
the jaigarh fort is located on top of a hill .
the idea of a canal linking the mediterranean to the red sea dates back to ancient times .
the area is particularly beautiful during the monsoons , with rain washed trees and the goodly smell of wet earth making you wish you could stay here forever .
mosques of taj mahal on either side of the taj mahal are buildings of red sandstone .
the first lighting system was installed for the universal exposition of 1900 , but by 1925 , andr citro n set the tower alive with his colored lighting ad campaign .
if forts can be ornate , umaid bhawan palace is a palace we are talking about .
albert hall museum of jaipur is supposed to be the oldest museum of the state .
after the sepoy mutiny of 1857 , the capital of the central province and its high court were moved to allahabad .
puri is located at a distance of 60 kms from the state capital bhubaneshwar .
a giant electronic quartz flower clock is also in the garden of all bag .
the same brutal isolated conditions which made the great wall a triumph of engineering and determined planning make restoration problematic and slow .
he further writes that the valley contains everything which should make life enjoyable .
bandipur tiger reserve , thistiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
the stately tombs of the qutub shahi rulers lie just outside the outer wall of the golconda fort .
this is normally in the himalayan range of jammu & kashmir , himachal pradesh , uttranchal & in the eastern himalayas .
the city has grown into a busy commercial and administrative hub and an important academic centre .
the ceiling of the verandah is painted with trees , birds , beasts and geometric design .
the 135ft high udaygiri and 118ft high khandagiri hills have ancient caves .
all this makes jeep safari in india earn the epithet of tourism with a difference .
the sport of white water river rafting calls for a triumph over the swift swirling river as it gushes past spectacular mountains .
the sanctuary has facilities for renting country boats for bird watching or picnics on one of the islands .
today , the massive castle still stands in bodrum , and the polished stone and marble blocks of the mausoleum can be spotted within the walls of the structure .
their action would be condemned by the international community , and nasser would eventually claim victorious .
the lush river valleys surrounded by snow-caped peaks , the fruit-laden orchards , gurgling streams and dense forests that echo with birdsong , evoke enchantment and delight .
recently the museum added a very interesting section of jewellery collection .
dahanu is lined with fruit orchards and is famous for its chickoos .
the hall contains several doorways adorned with carvings showing the king in military combat .
jaipur is color washed pink to welcome prince albert , the consort of queen victoria of england who visited india in 1883 a.d. .
to north of raj ghat is the cremation ground of jawaharlal nehru named as shanti van .
for those who love sailing , yachting and windsurfing , there are facilities in goa as well as at kovalam beach in kerala .
jaigarh fort was cleverly built to give its archers an advantage over their targets .
the government of india office has more information on other destinations as well .
the ' ittar ' ( perfume ) is a major specialty of ajmer .
kerala enjoys unique geographic features which has made it one of the most sought after tourist destinations in asia .
literally the abode of the serpents , saputara is gujarat 's best known hill resort offering breathtaking views of the sunrise and sunset .
the best way to explore the desert of rajasthan is through camel safari , the most popular mode of desert sightseeing .
indians now form the largest racial group , with most living in the agricultural areas , particularly around demerara .
the serene , beautiful state of karnataka , extends a complete contrast to its bustling cities .
babar defeated the lodhis to capture not only agra but also to lay the foundation of the mughal empire .
maharastra is the perfect place to start on an enlightening tour .
today , anak krakatau ( son of krakatau ) rises more than 150 m above sea level and is two km in diameter .
while the most descriptive accounts of the gardens come from greek historians such as berossus and diodorus siculus , babylonian records stay silent on the matter .
the guru was beheaded by aurangzeb 1675 .
this center is famous for the models which can be operated by the visitor himself .
bangalore is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
the countries varied and beautiful landscape should make this goal feasible .
delhi zoo has many animals which includes the rare and exotic white tigers .
barnes has been described as a place populated by country folk who ca n't quite let go of london .
at that time this was the only entrance to buckingham palace and st james 's palace .
however , if you do get marooned , there is a small village within the fort where you can potter around .
at nagarjunakonda , the excavated ruins of a buddhist settlement date back to the second and third century bc .
winter skiing in garhwal is now being professionally run at the auli slopes .
the ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the serpent god nagaraja .
70 km from leh on banks of the indus is alchi gompa dating a thousand years back .
the sims park , established here in 1874 , has fine lawns and a collection of rare plants and trees picturesquely located along a steep slope .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree-covered hills .
the area covered by the great pyramid can accommodate st peter 's in rome , the cathedrals of florence and milan , and westminster and st paul 's in london combined .
laxmi narayana temple , which is the main temple of chamba town , was built by sahil varman in the 10th century ad .
the canals and waterworks within the charbagh provide a grand reflection of the taj , further emphasizing the imagery of the paradise .
bhubaneswar has an airport with regular flights to mumbai , calcutta , delhi , hyderabad , nagpur , varanasi , raipur and visakhapatnam .
the foundation of the city 's spacious and excellently planned layouts had already been laid during the administration of dewans seshadri iyer and m. visveswaraya .
khwaja saheb is also known as sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar .
the temple was constructed over a period of 30 years , and illustrates some of the most beautiful examples of khmer and hindu art .
india is a vast country and its physical boundries are spread far and wide .
one can still see evidences of the early buddhist influence in amravati and at nagarjunakonda , one of the greatest archaeological sites in the country .
boat cruises make the best option to cheek out the wilds of periyar sanctuary .
in kumaon , the kail ganga ( sharda ) flows down from the nepal border through kumaon hills .
situated at about 10 km from the ooty town , dodabetta peak is one of the most prominent view points around ooty .
treta ke thakur temple stands at the place rama is said to be performed the ashvamedha yajnya .
the early detailed descriptions of the temple helped archeologists reconstruct the building .
modern excavations in persepolis began in the early 19th century .
the structure consists of approximately 2 million blocks of stone , each weighing more than two tons .
india gate is towards the eastern end of rajpath .
by the year 1885 , the time when the tower was being constructed , the use of iron and steel in bridges and building frameworks had become widespread .
in the heart of kottayam town is the much venerated thirunakkara mahadeva temple .
the bridge was more than just a river crossing though .
it was the hosting of the tricolor at red fort in delhi which marked a chapter in the history of india .
an outer casing ( which disappeared over the years ) was then used to smooth the surface .
from 1089 to 1101 a. d . , king harsha ruled kashmir .
the chowpatty beach overlooks a bay , and turns into a magical brightly lit funfair at night with vendors , pony rides , fortune tellers , performing monkeys , fishermen and families out for a stroll .
a perfect combination of romance and beauty , udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters , poets and writers .
akshay-teej festival takes place in april but the preparations for it begin early in the summer .
indira gandhi international airport is divided into two wings , international terminal ( 20 km from downtown connaught place ) and domestic terminal ( 15 km from city centre .
the older west side was opened in 1839 and now is only open for guided tours .
the museums situated in the heart of the city at egmore were founded in 1857 .
the temple of goddess saraswathi , the one and only temple of this deity in south india , located at basar is a famous pilgrim place .
the colossus of rhodes was not only a gigantic statue .
spain ruled the country until the early 19th century .
the magic of rajasthan is unequalled in the world for its heritage , culture , safaris , sand dunes and lush green forests with its wildlife .
their religious rituals largely coincide with the phases of agricultural cycles .
in summer , regular cultural programmers , fashion parade , flower and fruit shows are arranged in ooty .
following a terrorist bomb in the 1980 's strict rules on baggage have been implemented .
even more bizarre is the hunterian museum in the royal college of surgeons .
khwaja saheb is the landmark of ajmer and one of the holiest of muslim shrines in the country .
his impact is evident almost every where , says mulley , who has keen interest in the history and sociology of the nilgiris .
the third one was designed by john rennie and built in 1832 by his son , after his death .
when the arabs conquered egypt , they admired alexandria and its wealth .
best known to the world for its bikaneri sweets & snacks , bikaner 's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in raajsthan 's economy .
it is widely thought that buchan dreamt up the idea of using 39 steps at a time when he was recovering from illness in a convalescent home .
the characteristics of the manipuri people vary according to geographical divisions .
the open hand monument , a symbol of harmony and peace , is situated in sector 1 along the main road leading into the city .
balighai beach is about 8kms to the east of puri on the marine drive .
this palace is towards the western part of the famous mysore palace and at a walk able distance .
spend some time viewing the himalayan peaks , yamuna river , and the mussoorie valley .
a jamini roy collection and desmond doig 's pen and ink sketches of calcutta 's nostalgic landmark are also on view .
in 1989 , a four-ton service elevator was added ( also by otis ) helping to relieve the main elevators of excessive trips up and down .
the atharvaveda described ayodhya as ` a city built by gods and being prosperous as paradise itself .
the name idukki is derived from ` ` idukku ` ` which refers to a narrow gorge in malayalam .
the lettering , spacing and density has been customized to give this impression to the beholder .
assam the rich , green land of rolling plains and dense forests is the gateway to the north eastern part of india .
a weak and worthless man raja sahadev was the ruler then .
hyderabad is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
bolghatty palace became the official residence of the british .
bhavnagar is known for gandhi smriti , an institution built in memory of mahatma gandhi .
upper bhavani is a naturalist s paradise .
renowned artists are invited to come and perform in a night-long gala , open to the public .
kalamkari , the art of dyeing with vegetable oils and colors , still flourishes and silk sarees woven in the state rank among the most beautiful in the world .
designed by inigo jones for king james i ( 1603-25 ) and completed in 1622 , the banqueting house was originally built for occasions of state , plays and masques .
kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctury support a rich wildlife such as the panther , sloth bear , wild boar , scientifically bred crocodiles and four horned antelope .
ukhrul district headquarters of manipur east , 83 kms , away is the highest hill station of the state .
arjumand banu a shopkeeper was sitting at her shop in meena bazaar , the private market attached to the harem , when prince khurram saw her for the first time .
equipped with fully computerised projectors to depict the world beyond earth , the birla planetarium is one of the most modern planetariums in the country .
gmvn has developed a water sports resort at asan barrage .
mexico s capital city is one of speeding vw taxis and bustling marketplaces , countered by colorful aztec dancers and panaderias with freshly baked pastries .
amaravati is a small rural village which is predominantly hindu and with a small population of muslims too .
dry and very cold lahaul plateau is surrounded by high mountain on all sides , the great himalayan in the north .
the birth place of lord krishna , the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu s manifestations mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
gundicha mandir is located at the end of grand road about 3 kms northeast of the jagannatha temple .
although bolivia has entered an unprecedented era of political stability , it follows a record of 192 coups in the 156 years from independence to 1981 .
steeped in the splendor of its past , the ancient capital of gwalior has yet made a successful transition into a modern indian city , vibrant and bustling .
it tapers to a single room at the top , and is supported by columns with various designs .
there are only two wintering places for this rare species one in iran and other in bharatpur .
in india , the popularity of polo has waned and risen many time .
jodhpur is one of the most famous tourist places in rajasthan .
the major backwater stretches is in kottayam district , where a network of rivers and canals empty into the great expanse of water called the vembanad lake .
in bhubaneswar one can visit the finest temples - lingaraj , rajarani , mukteswar , brahmeswar and parasurameswar , these temples are some of the best specimens of the orissa temple architecture .
bara bazaar is the main shopping centre of aizawl , where all handicraft and handloom items are available .
the main shopping area is the sadar bazaar , besides kinari bazar , gwalior road , mahatma gandhi road and pratap pura .
maharaja s palace is a fine example of indo-saracenic style of architecture .
ganga is a superb river for inflatable rafts .
the mythological kingdom of nishadraj or the king of boatmen sits 40 kms away on the banks of the ganga .
deeg is renowned for its palaces surrounded by gardens , tanks and fountains of artificially colored water .
during the rainy season the starting point of the trek , is purola on the purola netwar motor road .
you ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many indians believe that curiosity conveys concern .
though the capital of gujarat was shifted from ahmedabad to gandhinagar , it is still the second largest industrial city in western india .
on the mahabharata war battlefield , lord krishna preached his divine message the bhagavad gita , to arjuna .
a rock portion projecting overhead and having an angle of more than 90 degrees is called as overhang .
the king repaired and restored many temples and shrines , and numerous other pious foundations were also made during his reign .
the carving of taj mahal were decorated with very precious gemstones .
the gandhi memorial centre , library and much more can be seen at the ashram .
one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalayas , the valley , sheltered by the sublime dhauladhar hills , is green and luxuriant .
on 15th august the indian prime minister addresses the nation from here .
the santa cruz church was declared a basilica by pope john paul ii in 1984 .
many of the palaces inside the fort were later added by next generations of mughal emperors like jahangir and shahjahan .
mumbai is also the country 's financial powerhouse , the nation 's industrial heartland , and its economic nerve centre .
vizag , as it is commonly known , is the commercial and industrial heart of northeastern andhra pradesh .
the erstwhile garden city has now been pegged the 'silicon valley ' of india .
the grassy area is known variously as college green , abingdon green and st stephens green .
the lush forest cover is abundant in wildlife , and is a veritable paradise for birdwatchers and nature lovers .
one of the smallest states of the indian union , nagaland is almost unexplored , as far as tourist destinations are concerned .
the state of himachal pradesh came into existence with the partition of punjab and haryana in 1966 .
the white marble came from makrana in rajasthan and the red sandstone from fatehpur sikri .
in the evening the delhi tourism organizes a light and sound show which narrates the history of delhi in context of the red fort .
india gate is a 42m high stone arch of triumph .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honour of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
there the nearest airport is at thiruvananthapuram , which is easily accessible from kollam quite a few trains pass through kollam on their way to and from larger cities .
the predominant species in the sanctuaries are deer and the most easily sighted are the graceful little chinkara , the indian gazelle and the chital or spotted deer .
journey time between mumbai and goa is approximately 8 hours .
in prince of wales museum there is a large collection of terracotta figurines , ivory carvings , statues , and miniatures .
situated at an elevation of 3566 m , the valley of harkidoon , is surrounded by glittering peaks and dense forests .
independent india has crossed 50 years and these five decades have seen many miracles .
the konark temple resembles a colossal chariot , with 24 wheels , pulled by seven straining horses , and has a three-tiered pyramidal roof topped off by a fine spire .
there are quite a few monuments in jodhpur , india .
in fact , about 75 % of the land area of rakata no longer exists .
despite attempts by the opposition to remove him , ch vez 's position remains secure for now .
as you circle the town by air or come in by train at howrah station , the bridge dominates .
this magnificent monument is set around a charbagh or four garden plans , which is split by watercourses a reflection of the persian style .
muhammad hanif was the superintendent of masons .
down in the south marine life and the eastern ghats the communion with nature is in the nilgiri ranges having its own unique appeal .
it houses a variety of indian snakes and reptiles which can be viewed from close quarters .
named after a certain monsieur ross who built a house on it in 1864 , it has now been converted into a chapel .
there are some wonderful deluxe hotels in agra and a lot of them vie to give you a view of the taj mahal .
this palace is located next to ` ` karanji kere ` ` lake on the way to lalithamahal palace .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
close to the fort complex , jaswant thada the 19th century cenotaph was built in white marble , in commemoration of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
the poshest area of mumbai , malabar hill has attractive residences , including the chief minister 's house and a palatial state guest house .
chennai presents a culture that is distinctly different from that of northern india .
the barge also travels as far as regent 's park where you can be dropped in the middle of the famous london zoo .
houseboats and motorboats are available on hire for bird watching cruises on the lake .
an exclusive upgradation of the traditional ' haat ' .
ajmer city was founded by the chauhan ruler , aiaipal , during the 11th century and is dominated by the taragarh fort built by prithiviraj chauhan .
built by the east india company in 1639-1640 , the fort marks the beginning of madras as a modern city .
maharashtra 's many inland and coastal forts are a legacy of shivaji and , to a lesser extent , the portuguese .
mandawa town was founded in 1755 by thakur nawal singh and is still the home of his descendants .
on her return , she persuaded lord curzon to do something to save this animal from total annihilation .
the first lambeth bridge was built in 1862 .
moreover , winter treks are gaining popularity as a means of getting away to relatively lower altitudes .
the eternal jamuna bears witness to the glorious and tumultuous 5 , 000 year old history of delhi .
each local temple is lit up enhancing the beauty of already lovely structure .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
it specializes in shakespeare s works , although other plays and musicals are also performed during the summer .
sanchen lake positioned in darjeeling , as the ideal honeymoon destination in india is a delight to behold and sense for the honeymooners in india .
the animal life is thick with ghoral , kakkar , sambhar and cheer pheasants , to name a few animals .
dalhousie is at a distance of 80 km from pathankot .
as soon one enters in the fort from the lahore gate there is a small bazzar , here all kinds of items are available .
manipur state museum is near the polo ground is an interesting museum , which is the best place to get a glimpse of manipur history and culture .
langthabal is the relics of an old historic palace well planned temples and ceremonial houses .
these stupas , temples , monasteries and pillars date back to almost the 3rd century b.c. .
the whole city was painted pink by maharaja man singh ii when prince of wales , later edward vii , visited jaipur in 1876 .
ramanagaram is also an important silk cocoon market .
the area surrounding solan is very rich in peas , tomatoes , ginger and beans .
emperor shah jahan is believed to have used the marble throne for repose , and the slate throne to watch elephant fights in the courtyard .
dimapur is connected by indian airlines flights with guwahati , delhi , calcutta , imphal and jorhat .
the concrete main dam is of the hollow gravity type and is connected to the spillway by a concrete buttress-type wing dam which continues thereon as a small cardhfill dike .
rajput heritage rajasthan has been long regarded as the land of maharaja s , forts and palaces .
the mausoleum is four storied the first three in red sandstone , and the one on the top in white marble .
like taimur in the punjab and delhi , dulucha carried sword and fire , destroyed towns and villages and slaughtered thousands .
a unique museum of dolls is located near the ito crossing on the bahadur shah jafar marg .
one of hyderabad 's prime attractions is the salar jung museum , the world 's largest collection by a single individual , sir yusaf ali salar jung iii .
the former british residency , overlooking the artificial lake , ana sagar , has now been converted to the circuit house .
the announcement triggered a swift reaction by great britain , france , and israel , who all invaded egypt less than two months later .
according to popular belief in name kurukshetra comes from the pious king kuru and his tribe .
international and domestic airlines connect ahmedabad to bombay , delhi and major cities of india .
eco tourism , chhattisgarh tours with 12 % share of india s forests , chhattisgarh s 3 national parks and 11 wildlife sanctuaries are major attractions .
the khajuraho city traces its origin in the 10th century when it was the bastion of the chandela dynasty .
the mudhumalai sanctuary lies at a distance of 36 km from ooty .
the period between the decline of the mughal dynasty and the insurgence of the british imperial rule , polo almost vanished from the mainland india .
picturesque vintage car rallies are also held in some of the metros like kolkats s annual statesman vintage car rally .
the martand temple has been universally admired by the archeologists and the artists .
the reign of this king would not be complete without the mention of 'suya ' one of the greatest engineers kashmir produced in ancient times .
one of the few modern planned cities in india , chandigarh is divided into 47 self-contained sectors .
spanish rule was administered from a distance , leaving the various regions to develop separately from the capital , caracas , which was founded by diego de losada in 1567 .
the specialty of this palace is that the facing portions of the palace are made of soft iron .
today the fort is used by the state legislative assembly and as the secretarial offices of the tamil nadu government .
this unique observatory jantar mantar was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
apart from its own considerable scenic attraction , dalhousie is the gateway to chamba , the valley of milk , honey , springs and streams .
government central museum has a rich collection of ivory work , textiles , jewellery , carved wooden objects , miniature paintings , marble statues , arms and weapons .
itanagar is the capital of india s largest north eastern state .
sikandra fort is the last resting place of the mughal emperor akbar .
he built a medieval fort on the same spot where the lighthouse once stood , using the fallen stone and marble .
rao karamsi-the eighth prince of rao jodha , the founding maharaja of jodhpur successfully launched the royal dynasty at khimsar .
the barhut asokan rock edict ( bc 250 ) in pali written in the brahmi script is one of the most important exhibits .
along the banks of jamuna are located the places were the leaders and freedom fighters of india were cremated .
all the major indian festivals are celebrated in banagalore with pomp and gaiety .
the late 16th century junagarh fort & museum was constructed by raja rai singh , a general in the army of akbar , the mughal emperor .
chaurasi is the site of the shrines dedicated to laxminarayanan , amareshras and barahi .
the challenge of the turbulent rivers is no less than that of the rigged mountains .
visit sarnath where he gave his first sermon and kushinagar where he attained parinirvana .
the icy heights of the himalayas are the source of some of india s mighty rivers .
gir forest is the only place in the world , outside africa , where the lion can be seen in its natural habitat .
there was even talk of a bridge with a span wide enough to cross the english channel .
after the 1821 declaration of independence , peru was challenged by the royalists .
the city of london is a strange place .
alibag is like a tropical island , all lush trees and palm fringed beaches .
this rich avian and faunal life combined with its picturesque scenery make a visit to the park a memorable one .
it was he , who finally broke the power of arabs in sindh .
river sports in the rapids of the toughest and most popular throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping .
only a third of the 2 , 500 , 000 rivets used in the construction of the tower were inserted directly on site .
in retirement following the panama scandal , eiffel devoted the final thirty years of his life to a fruitful career as a scientist .
a simple square platform of black marble marks the spot where mahatma gandhi was cremated after his assassination in 1948 .
the first brush with royality could be had on the palace on wheels , the tourist train run by the rajasthan tourism department .
the entire proceedings of the conference were inscribed on copper plates in sanskrit , enclosed in stone boxes , deposited in a vihar .
consisting of the twin cities of hyderabad and secunderabad , hyderabad is also the capital of the state of andhra pradesh .
the lohapol or the iron gate at the mehrangarh fort has a special historical significance and attracts tourists even today .
all travelers and tourists are required to make this journey along with an experienced guide .
vasco house sports the typical european glass paned windows and verandahs , characteristic of the times .
mumbai , too , has several opportunities for sailing and other water sports .
dalhousie the pride of himachal pradesh remains a much sought after hill station in india as a honey mooner 's destination .
the mughals in northern india have given to india several fascinating forts and palaces .
the 2 main destinations in india , which have scuba diving activities , as well as courses in the sport are the andamans and lakshadweep .
india has been a bit slow into commercially exploiting its rich natural heights , waterfalls and galactic glaciers and marketing its old world bounties to the new world enthusiasts .
but the important thing for the future of these hills is that we retain the spirit and energy of sullivan .
today nothing remains at the site of the old temple except rocks and debris , the foundation of the buildings , and fallen columns .
this blue-basalt building in early english gothic style was designed by col. j.a. fuller .
flowers are arranged in delightful patterns in everyone 's front yards and there are cultural programmes held all over the place .
the scenery that unfolds as one looks out of the window is breathtaking .
in spite of this entire karkota rule on the whole has been considered as the glorious and remarkable periods of ancient kashmir .
lothal is one of the most important historical sites that that must pay a visit to during your tours to historical monuments in gujarat , india .
unless you are accustomed to horse riding , a daylong camel ride will be tiring .
the closest operational airport is at varanasi , which is four hours away by road .
it is nestled in the outer inclines of dhaulandhar range .
thank god that mumbai has any number of little beaches that you can escape to when the going gets tough .
in ancient times , a statue of poseidon adorned the summit of the building .
as the winch glides along the slopes , the sight of thick sholas unravels itself .
this planetarium gives a overview of the indian space program .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
further in south you can enjoy water adventures along both the west and the east coasts of india .
the palaces and temples built by bundela rajputs retain much of their pristine perfection .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far-flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
tropical moist deciduous forests grow in the terai and the northern areas .
ooty is one of the most popular tourist resorts in india .
soaring high coniferous forests and flower meadows welcome the trekker .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to this marvelously natural and neanderthal hill station in india .
general augusto pinochet ugarte was declared supreme chief of state and president , and remained in power despite considerable opposition from many sectors of society .
the landscape of kaziranga is of sheer forest , tall elephant grass , rugged reeds , mellow marshes and shallow pools .
before dieing mumtaz extracted a promise from shah jahan that after her death he would build the most beautiful building of the world as a tribute to their love .
holiday packages on the houseboats , traditional kettuvalloms , an out-of-this-world experience at kumarakom .
the ceremonial arch was built in 1927 to commemorate the visit of king .
also has a swimming pool .
they are said to have migrated from thailand and burma long ago and still using ancient scripts derived from their original homeland .
the capital , caracas , boasts fine historical monuments , an excellent collection of museums and art galleries , and contrasting examples of old and new architecture .
maharashtra is proud of its history of having stood up , initially , against the mughal invaders from the north and then later against the british empire .
the baroque style ruled the roost in goa which amounts to an overwhelming stress on intricate glasswork , details and wooden work .
on diwali , the festival of lights , in october / november every year a large fair is held here .
just 21 kms from the city and easily accessible by road is the bannerghatta national park .
this course of rejuvenating treatment , a process which is permanently under way , helps give the tower a very long life expectancy .
visit the mughal gardens , the chashme shahi ( royal spring ) , nishat bagh ( pleasure garden ) and shalimar bagh ( the abode of love .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
the south pier was rigged anew in 1983 with a small electrically driven elevator by otis to take customers up to the jules verne restaurant .
the rivers like the sutlej , beas ( in himachal pradesh ) , teetsa ( in sikkim ) , and yamuna also offer sporting challenges .
there is a tourist lodge within the park and early morning boat rides into the marsh are a treat for bird lovers .
trivandrum is an important international gateway of south india with few direct flights from west asia , sri lanka and maldives .
indian airlines connect imphal with delhi via guwahati on mondays , wednesdays , fridays and saturdays .
a highly polished small marbles piece is so fitted that it serves as a mirror and one can see the mausoleum reflected in it .
emperor jahanir entitled prince khurram as ` shah jahan ` and when he became emperor he entitled his wife as mumtaz mahal ` the chosen one of the palace .
sandwiched between many of the grand houses you can find charming cobbled mews containing smaller residences .
the kishanpur sanctuary located about 30 km from dudhwa , is the other constituent of the reserve .
shimla at an altitude of 2 , 130 m is an utterly charming resort .
the magh mela in january is an important religious event for hindus .
sikandra fort is the mausolemn of emperor akbar represents his philosophy and secular outlook , combining the best of hindu and muslim architectures in a superlative region .
the place does become a little too crowded on saturdays and sundays , but a walk on the heath should relieve any sense of claustrophobia .
the jagannath temple with its elaborate carvings and moldings are very fine examples of orissa architecture. ( non hindus are not allowed .
built by the portuguese in around the 16th century , this roman catholic church is famous for the beautiful paintings on its ceiling .
built by maharaja jai singh , the notable astronomer , the jaipur city is 260 years old .
team mrf , team jk , team jct and team paarel are the only four teams india today .
during the urs fair , folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices .
the airport is 5 km away from agartala city and taxis and autos transport you to the city .
india travel destinations , the tour guide arranges for these tours to these much-coveted honeymoon hotels in chennai .
bhuj has several brilliant facets that surprise the traveler who expects an arid , run-down scenario exuding apathy and fatalism in equal parts .
the building made during mid 16th and earlier 17th centuries were purely in the contemporary mughal style and of very high quality .
this historical monument is a multi-layered palace that has a beehive structure and is an architectural wonder .
bikaner is also one major hub for the tourists looking for an adventurous camel ride , which gives an insight into the exquisite lifestyle of remote rajasthan .
the natural heritage of india is as rich and diverse as the cultural heritage .
horse guards barracks and the parade ground behind them were built in the 1750 's .
it featured in the film four weddings and a funeral as the spot of hugh grant 's ill-fated marriage ceremony .
over the centuries , it has become the symbol of undying love and flawless beauty .
the roof of mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes .
it is open on all days except fridays from 8 am to 5 pm .
then we have the beautiful saheliyon ki baadi which is another royal fountain dedicated to the reigning dynasty and its entourage of family members .
kuruma is a small village , about 8 kms from konark and a site of buddhist archaeological discoveries .
economically speaking , ooty can sustain itself with income from potato and other hilly vegetables and tea .
at the sangam , the waters of the ganges and the yamuna can be distinctly seen to merge into one .
the marwari has a beautiful head crowned by perky lure shaped ears meeting at the tips .
lincoln 's inn is one of london 's four inns of court .
for the foreign visitors permits are given only after they obtain an introductory letter from the respective embassy .
there is so much to see in this incredible city .
also , in the early part of 1996 , the building caught fire and almost became a towering inferno .
the queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue .
chattrapati shivaji terminus , formerly known as victoria terminus ( vt ) , this is one of the most imposing buildings in mumbai .
other findings include the vaulted building with thick walls and irrigation well near the southern palace .
the red government buildings are a study in contrast against the remarkably white old british buildings still in existence , notably the maharajas palace .
wenlock downs is a region of extensive grasslands with shoals or gallery forests of eucalyptus .
most of the population of haryana is engaged in agriculture yielding grain , sugar , oilseeds , and cotton .
the immortal akshaya vat tree within the patalauri temple , has found mention in the description of several ancient scriptures , writers and historians .
the bush administration inherited ' plan colombia ' after victory at the us november 2000 poll and endorsed the plan with some modifications .
the 10 day dussehra festival is one of the major attractions , culminating in the long procession of caparisoned elephants , liveried retainers , and cavalry .
the final chapter in the history of the lighthouse came in ad 1480 when the egyptian mamelouk sultan , qaitbay , decided to fortify alexandria 's defense .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the palace .
government central museum was constructed in 1876 when prince of wales has visited india and opened to public in 1886 .
fountains , terraces , lotus pools , rose gardens and a deer park surround the magnificent glass house built in 1840 , on the lines of london 's crystal palace .
agriculture is the main occupation of meghalaya , with eighty three percent of the total population , dependent on it for their livelihood .
argentina formally surrendered on 14 june , 10 weeks after the invasion .
hawa mahal is the most recognizable monument of jaipur .
even in summer , the evenings tend to be cool so do carry a light wrap with you .
unlike other sanctuaries , however , the building was made of marble , with a decorated fa ade overlooking a spacious courtyard .
himachal pradesh is a delightful state for visitors , particularly during the hot season .
khuldabad is a walled city also known as rauza and famed as the ' heavenly abode .
safety standards were redefined and adapted to modern requirements , particularly where they concerned fire safety .
the west side is being left to age gracefully and contains an enormous amount of plant life and animals , including foxes .
an entire kerala village is recreated on the beach during this exotic 10-days long festival held at kovalam .
currently the main attractions of the temple are the robort who enact and preach the gita .
today , mumbai is the country 's financial and cultural centre , it is also home to a thriving film industry .
the moti bagh palace , built in 19th century , is patterned after the famous shalipaar gardens of lahore .
like other beaches on the konkan coast , alibag too has a historic fort , the , which is just off the main sea shore .
the minarets have a slightly outward incline , to prevent them from falling on the monument during an earthquake .
this is the place to buy all sorts of woven material with colorful and unusual tribal motifs .
april fools ' day is a unique gathering of various poets from all over the country at chandigarh .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
the islands are now fast becoming an attractive holiday destination for the anthropologist and the beach lover .
the legendary prithviraj chauhan ruled from here till he was defeated by abdali in the battle of panipat .
shiva is another name for independence , and the only reality of the universe is shiva who is infinite consciousness , and unrestricted independence .
for those fascinated by the unexplored , the mountain ranges of india offer breathtaking , enthralling trekking routes .
the architectural complex is comprised of five main elements : the darwaza or main gateway , the bageecha or garden , the masjid or mosque , the naqqar khana or rest house , and the rauza or the taj mahal mausoleum .
bandipur tiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
a statue of a chariot pulled by four horses adorned the top of the tomb .
they traditionally practice jhuming or shifting cultivation , the third group comprises noctes and wanchos in the tirap district .
adding to the charms of khajjiar , which also hugs a golden-domed devi temple , is a golf course set in idyllic surroundings .
its colonial ambience is reinforced by cobbled paths , tiny shops , gabled houses with magnificent facades and scores of neat little gardens and orchards .
over the past few centuries , the great wall has served as a source of building materials for local farms and villages .
see the palaces , baths , pavilions , each an architectural gem in the afghan style , mosques and tombs of great beauty .
a minicoal mine is the main attraction .
9 kms from allahabad is the ancient site of pratisthanpuri .
though small , the temple has an air of distinct elegance and its lofty white tower is a landmark of the coutryside .
all major forms of indian classical dance converge on one stage at ananya , a festival of dance held against the charming backdrop of the purana qila every year .
nagaur is 43 km from khimsar , it is famous for the cattle fair that is held every year in the month of january .
the golden temple stands in the centre of the city and the jallianwala bagh is right next to it .
amritsar is best known for its woolen blankets and sweaters .
kangra is a small town and was the capital of the erstwhile rulers of the chand dynasty .
a slightly scruffy area suffering from an unsightly flyover cutting right through its centre , hammersmith is home to the apollo which hosts many top class acts and popular shows .
the old northwest ( which included wisconsin ) formally passed to the united states in 1783 and was made a part of the northwest territory in 1787 .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
the light-colored ones are the ones from jaisalmer , and are prized for their speed .
the 2 main destinations in india , which have scuba diving activities , as well as courses in the sport are the andamans and lakshadweep .
brahmavart ghat is considered the holiest ghat of bithoor .
a good network of roads joins jaisalmer with jodhpur and many other destinations in and around rajasthan .
the most important natural resource in ubon ratchathani is its forests , such as teng-rung forests , red forests and mixed forests .
for khaman and other gujarati style delicacies , visit sai bhojanalaya , a favourite restaurant with locals in panchayat market .
go for old favourites like cr me de menthe , or try spicy innovations like ginger and cardamom ( sikkim produces a large quantity of both .
the painting of twin brigdge was chosen to be the first-day cover of the united nations ' postage stamp in 1985 .
incredibly beautiful , these artifacts make for memorable gifts .
andretta pottery is usually light , colourful and highly aesthetic .
this can be obtained from indian missions abroad or the immigration authorities in mumbai , calcutta , delhi , and chennai or on arrival at port blair .
mirmar hotel also has an entertainment centre called the mirasol lake resort and parkin kadaiya village , nani daman .
the place is untouched by the outside world of modernity .
the cape was locally referred to as jung ceylon , which was located between latitudes 6 n and 8 n ( the present site of phuket island .
assam was dominated by ahom rulers for more than 600 years , they ruled assam virtually uninterrupted for 6 centuries until their kingdom fell to the british , in 1826 .
zhouzhuang , one of the most famous water townships in china , situated in kunshan city which is only 30 kilometers ( 18 miles ) southeast of suzhou .
the exploration and conquest of present-day new mexico by the spanish and , later , the mexicans , introduced a culture that continues to influence the character of new mexico .
based on questionable evidence , the convictions by an all-white jury generated international outrage .
the most especial experience in orissa is found at the beautiful chilka lake .
in 1805 , york , an african-american servant for the the lewis and clark expedition traveled though what is now idaho .
the state of tripura is supposed to have been named after this temple .
there is always a cool , fresh breeze that makes even the warmest months bearable .
the palace regales the historically inclined tourist to its royal rooms and suits , its log huts and bamboo cottages .
after passing a mangrove swamp , you will see tham lot tai a cave beneath a limestone hill with a stream flowing through narrow passages .
the empires grandeur can still be admired in many areas of chaiya district .
take the grand red city wall for example and it has an 8.6 meters wide base reducing to 6.66 meters wide at the top .
as the united states expanded to the west , the platte valley trails of nebraska became the major highways .
the futuristic park is built to exacting international standards , supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure .
the paragliing ashram is a quiet place to relax and take endless walks around the lake , or better yet , plunge right into adventure country .
although the royal family still live on the top floor , you can stay in on of six rather ornately decorated rooms .
from grandparents to toddlers , the big chill informal italian bistro attracts food buffs from all over the city .
andaman islands played an important role in india 's freedom movement with many a freedom fighter sentenced to prison terms at the cellular jail .
true to its name , there is a giant verandah , made of its beautifully carved white wooden balustrades , which runs all around the house .
bekal fort beaches is a spectacular location made immensely atmospheric , thanks to the brooding presence of the bekal fort right on the sea .
`` the scenic beauty of andaman & nicobar islands would create a sense of dissatisfaction and the human mind would rebel against `` the whole mass of the motley facts of life .
museum is proof of the country 's motto of unity in diversity as well as freedom of religion depicted in the houses of worship built on the grounds .
the government museum displays a collection of archaeological artifacts and the art gallery has a collection of the works of the noted artist of the court of mysore k . venkatappa .
the islamic style of architecture is also referred to as the indoislamic style of architecture .
the arid landscape of eastern and southeastern nusa tenggara is the result of hot , dry winds blasting in from the australian continent .
a major achievement of king ramkhamhaeng was the revision of various forms of khmer alphabets into a system suitable for the writing of thai words .
wildflower hall is a fairytale luxury resort set in 23 acres of virgin woods of pine and cedar at a height of 8 , 350ft. .
delwara is a key indian archeological site , nestled in the rocky and sylvan surroundings of mount abu .
wild flowers such as the wild poppies are the ones , which are commonly grown in sikkim as a prominent hill station in india .
although never formally designated as such by the british , savannah was the center of colonial government in georgia for half a century .
the famous bikaneri bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in bikaner .
when mexico fought and obtained independence , california lost virtually all its centralized support .
the stone amalaka or crown is encircled by a wooden roof , and the stone walls have intricately carved images .
originally built to houses the guests of the chogyal royal family , the nor-khill ( the name means above of jewels ) boasts a fusion of traditional sikkimese architecture and modern comfort .
the guru is said to have accepted only offerings of weapons from his disciples , which were used for defense of the temple town .
caves 2 and 3 are dedicated entirely to vishnu , whereas cave 4 is has an image of the jain tirthankara , adinath .
the hesaraghatta lake , a man-made lake , near the village is also a popular tourist spot .
national parks & monuments include badlands , wind cave , jewel cave , mount rushmore .
please keep your camera ready in barren island because this comes to life without warning and when it does , it makes headlines .
the steady stream of hopeful prospectors from the east and midwest increased the number to 20 , 595 in 1870 , the year of the first census .
queen victoria opened blackfriars bridge in november 1869 .
electronics city is an industrial park spread over 330 acres exclusively meant for electronics industries .
pilgrims also come to these shores to perform the last rites of their relatives .
you won t feel like an outsider in tribal country for long the untouched beauty and simplicity of dadra & nagar haveli will draw you right in .
dharamshala is the headquarters of the tibetan government in exile and a treasurehouse of all things tibetan .
about one percent of the population of kerala and tamilnadu are tribal , where as about six percent in andhra pradesh and karnataka are members of tribes .
after they were forced to cede their lands to the united states in 1825 , the osage moved to kansas territory .
abot 35 kms from tirtupati the temple town pf klalhasti is the best place to buy kalamkari fabric .
the 572 islands of andaman and nicobar archipelago in the bay of bengal is a fantasy world of silver sands , a diverse and un exploited eco-system , coral reefs , evergreen forests and exotic flora and fauna .
the v-shaped building , which stands opposite victoria terminus ( chhatrapati shivaji terminus ) is designed in early gothic style blended with indian motifs .
native americans , most of whom are of the dakota ( sioux ) people , were 8.3 percent of the population , blacks 0.6 percent , asians 0.6 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 1.8 percent .
try the fish fillet stuffed with prawns or the steamed rice with fish in green gravy .
a festival of sufi music dedicated to hazrat amir khusrau , famed poet laureate and an icon fo love and integration , the jahan-e-khusarau is held in spring every year in delhi .
later in 1899 , the area was under the supervision of northeastern monthon , with ubon ratchathani serving as an administrative hub .
harsha along with his son bhoja were murdered , and the kashmir throne passed into the hands of two princes respectively .
the library has a collection of some 75 , 000 books besides historical manuscripts and journals .
it is best to go to a local restaurant for a handful of utti .
treks up to 4900 mts need no permission , and can be undertaken on tourist visas .
climb upon the parapet , whose different levels are connected by winding staircase , ascending right to the top for a superb panoramic view of the river .
sightseeing emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
next to the bridge you can still see the pillars , which supported the old 1860 's london , chatham and dover railway bridge .
thus lalitaditya must be regarded as the founder not only of shortlived empire , but also of six centuries of kashmir hindu art .
kotagiri is shielded by the doddabetta ranges which receive much of its rain from north west monsoon .
blacks , most of whom live in the omaha metropolitan area , constitute 4 percent of the population , asians 1.3 percent , native americans 0.9 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 4.2 percent .
there are four morning buses to ajanta ( 3 hours ) and an hourly bus service to the town of jalgaon via ajanta .
built of white marble this takth harmandir is actually a sikh shrine , commissioned by maharaja ranjit singh to commemorate the birth of the last sikh guru , guru gobind .
one can also be awed by the ibrahim roza , a moque and tomb said to have inspired the making of the tal mahal .
one of chiang mai 's distinctive features is doi inthanon , thailand s highest peak , which is 2 , 575 meters above sea level .
the ayodhya is closely associated with lord rama , the seventh incarnation of lord vishnu .
ko rok nai is composed mainly of steep cliffs with superb beachs and unspoiled coral reefs among rocks .
kadaknath chicken is found only in district of jhabua , which has a large tribal population of bhils , and is often served on festive occasions .
ajaipal chauhan founded ajmer in the seventh century .
it was announced in aug 2005 that singapore was ranked 5th in the top ten international meeting city in 2004 by the union of international associations .
pilgrims can try the pilgrim lodgings in pushkar called dharamshalas or settle for a tent at the tourist village during the pushkar fair in november .
munnnar as a lesser-known hill station in india was the summer capital of british raj in south india with numerous proud precedents attached to its history and origin .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
it was even shown on roman coins , just as famous monuments are depicted on currency today .
some of the largest glaciers outside sub-polar regions flow in the karakorams .
there are still old buildings left which are worth a visit for someone who is interested in the history of indonesia before and during the colonial times .
it has beaches , dense , beautiful forests and ancient temples .
the spacious rooms have verandahs that overlook all the greenery that you can get used to , and the staff will make you feel royalty .
over the next 100 years , colombian politics were dominated by the conservative-liberal feud , which often broke out into warfare .
one of the most luxurious heritage hotels in shimla , the oberoi cecil was restored to its original grandeur a few years ago .
maharashtra s konkan coastline , meanwhile , boasts sweeping beaches and quiet spots to grant relief from city stress .
it is india where polo the game of kings was rediscovered and nurtured since the medieval times .
king sahktan thampuran also introduced the famous festival , thrissur pooram .
the orchis has the honour of being asia s first certified eco friendly five star hotel .
large casinos have been built on these lands and are becoming a significant contributor to the native american economy .
assam is also known for its scenic beauty , one can view gushing rivers on one side , snow caped mountains on the other and lush forests in between .
set like a jewel in a courtyard of pink sandstone is the finest building here , the marble tomb of salim chisti enclosed by finely carved , lacy marble screens .
there were 127 columns in total , aligned orthogonally over the whole platform area , except for the central cella or house of the goddess .
jodhpur , the second largest city of rajasthan , at the edge of the thar desert was once the capital of the marwar state .
shimla , as a honeymoon destination in india is generously provided with honeymoon hotels serving the purposes of honeymooners in india , himachal pradesh .
the composition of the forms and lines of the taj mahal is perfectly symmetrical .
bharatpur bird sanctuary , magnificent bird haven is actual came into being paradoxically as a duck shooting preserve for maharaja suraj mull of bharatpur .
around & about by air agra is well connected by air , rail and roads .
the primary basis for this new growth and economic expansion was the production of cotton thorough a slave labor system .
tourists from all over the world come to see backwater .
at ayodhya several religions have grown and prospered simultaneously and also at different periods of time in the past .
there are some things that are really hard to find in lakshadweep .
jaghurajjpur is close to puri , otherwise buy from utkalka , the government-run emporium found in almost all major towns and cities .
the fort itself has a impressive bastions and a light house .
phang-nga bay plays host to some of the rarest species of aquatic life in the world , including the rare swimming iguana .
in spite of being seedy , grubby and altogether unattractive , camden town still manages to draw heaps of visitors keen to sample its vibrant market and underground music scene .
to many the annual surajkund mela ( in february ) is the place to stock up on arts , crafts and all things indigenous , bought straight from artisans .
kerala has always been regarded as an ideal setting as a honeymoon destination in india for the honeymooners in india to undertake a honeymoon in kerala .
it culminated in 1889 with the eiffel tower .
music accompanied the sacramental ceremonies which were performed in village and church plazas .
the half-day culinary courses in a studio setting highlight the best in south asian , south-east asian , middle eastern and fusion cooking .
the builders of the taj mahal knew that the reality and its perception and interpretation there of differed .
ubadya is a local version of the undhiyu of gujarat , ubadya is a mix of vegetables abd beans roasted in an earthen pot .
bandipur tiger reserve , thistiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
sukhothai was the first kingdom of the thais in this peninsula .
the hill stations sprawl over an approximate area of 38sq km and are a popular get away .
eateries along the highway are a good bet to sample traditional mizo food .
named for aurangzeb , the last of the great mughal emperors , aurangabad acquired plenty of monuments and a rich culture as its heritage from the middle ages .
the metro cities mumbai ( 545 km ) , delhi ( 915 km ) , calcutta , chennai and other major cities are linked by a number of super fast , express and mail trains .
people of ubon ratchathani are engaged in activities related to agriculture and livestock raising .
pilgrims leave offerings at the steps , and can also get the holy book recited in their names for a donation .
bangkok offers visitors the opportunity to experience fascinating glimpse of thailand 's gentle culture amidst the bustle of a great and dynamic metropolis .
a memorial in the park commemorates the proclamation of the assumption of rule by the british crown , announced by lord canning in 1858 .
in the lesser karakorams there are equally great peaks such as rakaposhi ( 7 , 788 metres ) , the dominant giant in hunza valley .
it was vasumitra and nagarjuna who gave shape and form to this new school of thought .
tuophema village resort , home to the angami tribes , the village community has itself developed and run this resort .
power is forever in short supply and on the whole , a healthy business environment is sadly lacking .
other shrines include the 16th century shrine dedicated to the divine couple lakshmi and narayan .
as indonesia 's main gateway , soekarno-hatta international airport serves a growing number of international airlines and domestic flights .
the new docklands is a fine example of this ability .
surat bhawan palace , lakhimpur khiri , not too far from the dudhwa national park is this heritage property , which was built in 1894 in the typical indo-saracenic style .
dashavatar temple dedicated to lord vishnu is the earliest known panchyatan temple in north india .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
delhi , where broad tree-lined avenues and gracious bungalows compartment blocks where the hand pulled friendly neighbors .
the cheyenne , arapaho , comanche , and kiowa were the most important plains tribes .
by the fourth century ad , most ephesians had converted to christianity and the temple lost its religious glamour .
habitat the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
other offshore isles such as ko poda , ko kai , ko mo and ko thap , are popular destinations that can be reached by a rented boat from ao nang .
this ancient temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord shiva .
leave behind the frenetic cigarettes and coffee pace of the city , and head to the purple valley yoga centre to soothe your body and soul .
whether it s a figurine of a hunter in frozen motion or something as mundane a garden chair .
a bridge connects both these ends , which also house thriving shopping malls with bargain price shops .
for those fascinated by the unexplored , the mountain ranges of india offer breathtaking , enthralling trekking routes .
at the sephijala wildlife sanctuary , humble abodes at laughable low prices offer you a window to daily life , a world of scenic vistas and exciting adventure .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
this temple was constructed by maharaja gulab singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son maharaja ranbir singh in the year 1860 a.d. .
it was the most beautiful structure on earth .
snuggle up under a hand stitched quilt with a book or just sit under the large mango tree , and get away from it all .
a night market comes up every evening at ahmedabad when colorfully dressed artisans put up their stalls on the streets outside the law garden .
it is located on a 17km stretch of the coramandel coast .
the original temple is said to have been destroyed by the mughal ruler aurangzeb who constructed a mosque on this site .
image thus , the unwary visitor will find chennai more than just a gateway of south india .
a pretty hill town , coonoor is located amidst tea gardens .
a huge fair is held here every year on the occasion of vijaya dashmi .
special times need a special place and shimla qualifies as that ideal honeymoon destination in india for these namby pamby honeymooners in india .
the imposing red gothic structure within this park is seshadri iyer memorial hall , which houses the public library .
location , they say , is everything , obviuously that s somthing taken very seriously at green mensions .
to walk off your excesses , set out to explore the small spice and fruit plantation in astoria .
lining the east of the city is the famous marina beach .
antarctica is not easy to access but that is part of its appeal .
15 kms from mysore is the old capital of tipu sultan , srirangapatna .
ahmedabad became the base camp for the indian freedom struggle with gandhijis sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , the core .
about two-fifths of the protestants are lutherans , and there are many methodists , baptists , and presbyterians .
coffee and tea are grown in plantations in various parts of the province but the area 's enormous wealth comes from oil , natural gas , coal , tin and quartz .
you can even sign up for cookery classes here .
while the tribal food is not usually available at hotels and restaurants , it is readily available in the small eateries of dabra s villages .
this ancient temple is popularly known as the monkey temple as the temple area is infested with several monkeys .
the place looks lovely in the crisp sunlight .
an old favourite with mussoorie buffs , the tavern has always been known for its scrumptious menu and fabulous live music .
north carolina became the 12th state to unite under america on november 21 , 1789 .
one of the best gifts you can carry back from your holiday is ellora s sinfully delicious pistachio and almond biscuits .
two swords of the emblem are enclosed in a circle with the inscription ek omkar ( god is one .
the real beauty of andhra pradesh lies in its green farmlands and villages .
applique work also called pipliwork .
around the old city there are other important gurudwaras ( sikh temples ) , like associated with the sikh gurus .
aligarh city is also noted for its handicrafts and metal wares .
ganjam was the first to introduce platinum jewellery in india , and now is only one to have created handicrafts platinum jewellery as well .
when colorado s first settlers arrived , they found comanche , cheyenne , arapaho , and kowa on the great plains , with utes inhabiting the mountains .
mylliem is full of khasi dhabas famed for their rugged cuisine .
special care was taken to maintain the garden , its waterworks as members of the royal family frequented it and stayed in the guesthouse ( mehmankhana ) near it .
west rai le provides visitors with peace and quiet as it is a broad sandy beach with fewer facilities than ao nang .
the emerald pool is located along the way , with clear signs posted .
milou tower is famous for being a rallying place of the literators in old times .
mumbai 's international airport is at sahar ( 30 kms ) & domestic airport is at santacruz ( 26 kms .
the sugandhesa temple is one of the important monuments in kashmir , india .
tham chao le a beautiful cave adorned with stalactites and stalagmites as well as prehistoric cave paintings depicting people , animals and various geometrical shapes .
a little away from the city is ramohalli , a picturesque picnic spot , that boasts of a 400-year old sprawling banyan tree , spread over 4 acres .
it looks very much like a tortoise and it is called ' kurma peeth ( kurma tortoise .
kullu is home to festivals and celebrations on a grand and colorful note , which are carried on by people of malani tribe .
the quiet and beautiful township of bithoor is situated on the kannauj road , 27 km from kanpur .
the east nusa tenggara province consists of over 550 islands , but is dominated by the three main islands of flores , sumba , and timor .
kumarakom , located on the southern coast of india enjoys a well-balanced tropical climate .
believe the hype ahmedabad is craft haven .
the state s rich green landscape offer travelers tranquil holiday option .
it included the `` panhandle , `` a narrow strip of territory taken from texas by the compromise of 1850 .
the alabama territory was created when congress passes the enabling act allowing the division of the mississippi territory and the admission of mississippi into the union as a state .
the main states of southern india are tamilnadu , kerala , maharashtra , andhrapradesh and karnataka .
the latest craze is the fragrant paan liqueur , which comes in a betel leaf-shaped bottle .
today , hua hin is a well-established beach destination with word-class facilities coupled with a true sense of thai hospitality .
the history of karkota dynasty after jayatida is a sad story of decline .
mhara gaam , rai , thinks ambience , culture , and mood ; close your eyes and cross these rather kitschy gates .
hotels opulence is enhanced by the wooden doorways fitted with beautiful beligian stained glass bearing the crest of the maharaja of kolhapur .
the celebrated kishangarh school of miniature paintings is renowned for its lyrical depiction of the divine lovers , radha and krishna .
the sims park , established here in 1874 , has fine lawns and a collection of rare plants and trees picturesquely located along a steep slope .
ayodhya during ancient times was known as kaushaldesa .
the mishri bazaar is the place to buy dry fruits , while katra mohan singh offers a colorful kaleidoscope of bridal glass bangles .
jaswant thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
the hill station is placed at the foothills of the mighty dhaulandhar range .
king yasovarman initiated the construction of khajuraho temples in 950 a.d. , which was a marvel of monumental construction in the era of chandela dynasty .
these are some of the wares that mount abu as a hill station in india has to offer to its visitors .
the foreign currency exchange counters of different banks are also opened at different places in the city .
hill stations in south india being known for their sleepy image and low profile need to be refurbished .
it soon became a meeting place for contemporary writers such as yeats and george bernard shaw .
a few hundred sac and fox native americans lived on a small reservation near tama , but many native americans also lived in cities , especially sioux city .
people believe it possible to fill 25 kilometers ( 15.5miles ) of gallery space with the works of art from mogao .
tsot and tsochvoru are small round breads , topped with poppy and sesame seeds , usually eaten with salt tea .
at gangtok s tibet hotel , noodles are encountered under many misleading names , but we have never been let down by the platterful at the golden dragon .
singing boatmen will row you across the lake to the palace , which is a fairy tale delight in striking white and red .
the emperor sat in the centre and discussions and debate were held here .
it is said that ashoka made this agam kuna and it is presumed that the well has endless source of water .
14kms from as a barrage is dispatcher , an aquatic complex with a swimming pool , located at the foothills of shivalik hills and on the bank of river yamuna .
the kurkihar temple is an important tourist site of religious importance in bihar , india and thus definitely warrants a visit during your temple tours to this region .
the numerous attractions , festivals and holidays are celebrated with a unique ubon flair in ubon .
crucial to whatever was done was the creation of a decent public transport system and the result is the docklands light railway with its speed , comfort and good value .
the average daily move is about 150 kms consisting of approximately five to six hours of jeep driving .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
the 300-acre park was laid in 1864 by lord cubbon .
remember to slip in the hotel s scrumptious brownies for a treat .
the hayagriva temple is located at hajo in assam in india .
the gardens adjoining the palace are delightful .
when gandhiji started salt satyagraha in 1930 , allahabad took a leading part at present it houses office of jawahar lal nehru fund and a children school for creative art .
after the decline of the guptas , several small kingdoms ruled this hilly state and established their power in its different regions .
just to the north of kathmandu are two lovely regions where one may experience tamang and sherpa life , temperate forest and alpine pastures , glaciers , lakes and snowy peaks .
more than 300 years ago , job charnock , an english tradesman set up a trading post on the banks of the ganga along the three-village nucleus .
changing money can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
its neighboring countries are pakistan , bangladesh , china , tibet and sri lanka .
fortune resort , this luxurious resort is almost entirely built in padouk , the red timber typical to the andaman and nicobar and designed by charles correa .
during your tours to historical sites and monuments in kashmir , india you can also visit the jama masjid located at nowhatta , srinagar in kashmir , india .
ask any vendor for directions where you can get delicious baigan ki boorani , achaar gosht , and rogan josh , all flavoured with nutmeg , mace , garlic , ginger , coriander leavesand kewra .
you will do so willingly , as prices are reasonable and attractive .
choice hotels india has over 30 hotels across 23 destination , offering economy to luxury accommodations under the international brands of comforttm , qualitytm and cariontm .
mostly dry deciduous with an abundance of teak on the periphery , the moister core area has large tracts of fragrant sandalwood and rosewood .
destination guide and tourist information on andaman & nicobar islands , beaches , water sports , fort & jail .
this shrine is built of wood and is supported with pillars that are also made of wood .
the naval memorial , a stone s throw away , is also a must see .
across india makar sankranti is celebrated as a harvest festival , but this is the day of kites at jaipur and jaipurites are famous for their expertise in kite flying .
the jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside rajasthan .
the region was named carolana , a word derived from the latin form of charles , in reference to the monarch .
built between 200 bc and 650 ad , the viharas and chaityas at ajanta are masterpieces as are the incredibly ornate temples carved out of hard rock at ellora .
adjacent to the fishing nets is the vasco da gama square , a narrow walkway with little stalls that serve fresh seafood and tender coconuts .
the gymkhana club , the factory of the hindustan photo films company , the government sheep farm and the folg course are all in wenlock downs .
tucked within the binsar wildlife sanctuary , binsar retreat resort , at an altitude of 7 , 500 feet , offers accommodation in five rooms and five luxury tents .
beautifully laid out gardens and parks , attractive monuments and marvelous heritage hotels , once the residence of maharajas are testaments to the rajasthan of yesteryears .
this is the delhi that you must discover and fall in love with , this is the delhi that is the heart of india .
the muslims annexed allahabad in 1194 , but the foundations of the modern city were laid by mughal emperor akbar in 1575 .
in bhopal s old chowk bazaar , head straight for the exquisite beached bags ( batuas ) , sold in the narrow alleys .
the ghantal festival is celebrated on a full moon light in the month of june at the guru ghantal monastery in lahaul valley .
independent india has crossed 50 years and these five decades have seen many miracles .
with an estimated crowd of 3 million tourists per year taj attracts about 15000 visitors per day .
the bhagwati temple is located in gourangpur close to asansol in west bengal , india .
chaat in chandani chowk , what is now taken for typical delhi cuisine is an eclectic and inviting mix of bania , punjabi and mughlai food .
located just 500 meters from tham lot , the cave can only be visited by boat from bo tho pier .
the most impressive elevated regions of this area are in the north and include volcano sumaco .
the largest province of the south located 685 kilometers from bangkok is surat thani the province with a name that literally means `` city of the good people .
cross sections of parts of the wall show where medieval londoners continued to maintain and add to the wall .
the jaintias cook their pork in black sesame-try it , it has a very distinctive taste .
muhammad hanif was the superintendent of masons .
shrines on the northern edge of the corridor are venerated as the hindus .
the port assumed a new strategic importance and began to enjoy commercial prosperity .
it is street fashion , leather accessories , books or curio , janpath has it all .
the royal city bikaner has a timeless charm like no other .
cochin proudly boasts a rich cultural heritage , but is one of the most fast paced and modern cities in india .
here , after the battle of trafalgar , the body of admiral sir horatio nelson was laid prior to his state funeral at st paul 's cathedral .
the township of tansen bears a rich legacy of the traditional art and architecture .
it was one of the first bastions of british power in india .
richly carved buttresses , domes turrets , spires and stained - glass windows make it hard to believe that this grand building is one of the main stations of mumbai and accommodates almost half a million commuters daily .
rooms are tastefully decorated and informed by all sorts of spiritual things .
the temple towns of orissa are also popular for their lovely beaches-both temples and beaches combine to make this state an exceptional destination .
osian is 27 km from khimsar and was a well-known trading center between the 8th and the 12th centuries .
germans , czechs , swedes , danes , irish , and italians were especially numerous and often remain concentrated in close-knit communities today .
a regular haunt of the writer graham greene , its back bar is reputed to be the smallest in england measuring just 4ft by 7ft .
taxis are abundant and affordable , the bus network and mass rapid transit ( mrt ) rail system are both efficient and reliable .
by around 1845 laminated iron was taking over as a more efficient and economic material than cast iron , heralding a spectacular rejuvenation in the conception of buildings .
there is a tourist lodge on the lake that provides basic accommodation and has a decent restaurant .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
done up like a typical greek tavern , this one s a must for those who wish to dig their forks into authentic greek food .
since the 1950s , florida s public education system and public places have undergone great changes .
you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
blacks , most of whom live in portland , account for 1.6 percent of the state 's population .
the large slopes of garhwal and kumaon covered with seasonal snow become an ideal place for skiing in the winter months .
namtok khlong haeng 500-meter high waterfall , which springs from khao thep bencha , krabis tallest mountain , is 10 kilometers from amphoe khao phanom .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
the snow line in karakoram range varies between 4200 to 4500 meters during the summers .
monsoons should be avoided climbing is relatively safe , but that should n't stop all climbers from taking precautions .
trekking provides the thrilling adventure of an uphill climb on narrow bridle paths , breathtaking views across growing hills , valleys and gorges and the changing vegetation at every turn .
the international tech park is meticulously designed and built to suit the requirements of international hi-tech companies in the field of information technology , software development , electronics , telecommunication , research and development , financial services and other non-polluting hi-tech industries .
the red temple is a digambar jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple .
in case of partial disablement , the amount of compensation shall be proportionate to the percentage of disablement as declared by aw civil surgeon .
netaji subhash road is the centre of the onetime english commercial houses which today flourish in indian hands .
but for those determined to play the business game in this state , here are a few pointers .
the intersection with the chinese border makes it particularly vulnerable to tran s border intrusions .
fancy dress carnivals , ' gymkhanas ' ice hockey and dances enliven every season in shimla .
if you want the true flavour of the city follow the twisty streets that disappear into the old town , east of the jagdish mandir .
the mausoleum of emperor akbar represents his philosophy and secular outlook , combining the best of hindu and muslim architectures in a superlative region .
i m not much of a shopper , but i like the handicrafts in darjeeling .
rooms are airy with bamboo furnishings and tiled floors. cosy restaurant and bar .
the wide street that runs from trafalgar square towards the city is the strand .
interstate bus services linking ahmedabad to other cities in the state and beyond are regular and efficient .
kamala nehru park was named after the wife of india 's first prime minister , jawaharlal nehru .
khaman is another must eat , a steamed chickpea cake cut into squares , extremely popular in silvassa .
shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept .
polo owes its origin to the british , even though it was first played in india .
although we do not know the true shape and appearance of the colossus , modern reconstructions with the statue standing upright are more accurate than older drawings .
the nearest railhead , silchar , in assam , is 180 km away .
on nag paharthe snake mountain the panchkund and the cave of saint agastya are located .
to make your visit to singapore a truly memorable experience , please contact your nearest singapore tourism board ( stb ) office for complimentary brochures and other tourist information .
the most popular stretch for river rafting is on the ganges , near rishikesh in uttaranchal .
the governor of tripura now lives in a palace that was built in 1917 and named the `` `` by birendra krishna manikya , a km away from the ujjayanta palace .
chiang mai is also blessed with pristine natural resources of mountains ( dois ) , waterfalls , and other nature-based tourist attractions .
car rental companies will rent vehicles with drivers .
the kulcha is sweet or savoury , sometimes flavoured with aniseed .
apart from anarray of handicrafts , ima keithal sells a stunning range of pickles .
pastoris ( shepherds ) started as a performance of christmas carols in front of the nativity scene in preparation for midnight mass .
during your temple tours to kolkata , india you can visit the barakar temples at barakar that are located very close to asansol in west bengal , india .
hawa mahal is the most recognizable monument of jaipur .
a city that easily , effortlessly combines in itself the lineage of the old and the panache of the new .
built in 1621 by parvezshah , son of emperor jahangir , this stone mosque is also known as sanji masjid and the structure is a marvel of architecture .
while shopping in aimer , one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing rajasthani culture and style .
over the past 15 years , deep sea fishing competitions have grown in size and popularity with phuket and krabi as centres for a growing fleet of contenders .
celebration of the gher ghoomer festival before the chamunda devi temple has been a tradition of the local tribes for the last six centuries .
unlike other beach resorts , where natural surroundings are used as magnets to attract tourists , pattaya makes an all-out attempt to provide the best of everything .
when the arabs conquered egypt , they admired alexandria and its wealth .
trekkers often continue on to the sacred shrine of muktinath , near the 5 , 415-meter thorang-la pass and down into the lovely valley of manang .
inside the gate of the fort there is the church of bom jesus , which attracts most of the daman s visitors .
by the mid-1700s only a handful of native settlements survived in kentucky .
beach , where tables are out in the evening .
do not take away flora and fauna in the forms of cuttings , seeds or roots it is illegal , specially in the himalaya .
to catch the painters at work , walk into vijaylakshmi kalamkari arts on agraham street .
one clap at the gate would travel seven levels up to the fort .
once called the de 's tavern , milou tower perches next to zhenfeng bridge which is at the southwest corner of zhouzhuang .
part of the territory of orleans , louisiana became the 18th state to unite under america on april 30 , 1812 .
works with temporal themes , such as portraits of exalted personages , became part of rio 's artistic production .
there are some wonderful deluxe hotels in agra and a lot of them vie to give you a view of the taj mahal .
this city is also popular because of the belief that the jain tirthankar , lord mahavira was born here .
this large state is becoming increasingly important to india in the techno savvy age of cyber optics and virtual reality .
in fact , it began as independent walls for different states when it was first built , and did not become the `` great `` wall until the qin dynasty .
rosewood inlay work , also popular , is an art confined to mysore , unlike the sandalwood carvings the rest of the state is known for .
chennai is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
winter visitors will need one thick jacket/coat , socks , gloves and sweaters .
strangely , despite being catholic , the head of the order is the queen ( who is also supreme head of the church of england .
the lewis & clark expedition crossed montana in 1805 on their historic trek to the pacific ocean .
great wall went through constant extensions and repairs in later dynasties .
the highest peak , mount semeru is the highest in java while the brantas ( 314 km ) and bengawan solo ( 540 km ) are the two big rivers .
these lands were sold to settlers through extensive advertising campaigns , with some companies sending representatives to europe to encourage immigrants to come to nebraska .
the spanish and the english were the first to venture up the northwest coast of the pacific ocean .
in 408 bc , the cities united to form one territory , with a unified capital , rhodes .
following a 250 year tradition , the weavers create a contrast of vibrant colors and pastel shades in vegetable dyes .
some of the best places to buy locally knitted sweaters , shawls , caps and mufflers are the mall in shimla , the bhutti weavers colony ( 6 km from kullu town ) , the mall in manali , mcleodganj , and the various state emporia that dot himachal pradesh .
allow for time to enjoy the panoramic and magnificent sites of the awesome mountains , rivers , flora and fauna .
the state capital is denver other major cities or towns include colorado springs , aurora , lakewood , fort collins , pueblo , arvada , westminster , boulder , greeley .
aurangabad seems to have more than its share of secondary monuments and sights .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight .
the cannon on the front porch looks out onto the mall , while stuffed antlered heads stare down at visitors from wooden plaques fighting for space on the walls .
look out for the drinking fountain set in the church wall , it was the first metropolitan public drinking fountain and was originally erected on holborn hill in 1859 .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
thanks to the mall s elevated status as the capital of himachal , shimla sells handicrafts from the entire state-kullu caps , kinnauri woolens , chamba rummals and lots more .
situated in western rajasthan , jodhpur has long attracted both the domestic and outside tourist .
kufri , is a famous tourists spot only 16 kms from shimla .
there are quite a few temples in jammu and kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the raghunath temples , kheer bhawani temple , sudh mahadev temple , vaishno devi , amarnath and the shankaracharya temple .
bhindranwale was killed , and so were thousands of his men and soldiers .
gordon house in the south mumbai is a boutique hotel that offers three floors of exotic themed rooms choose between the scandinavian , mediterranean and country cottage style .
the province is unique in its folk culture , which is expressed in the indigenous cuisine , handicrafts , such as silk and cotton products , basketry , and bronze-ware , and traditional events such as the candle festival held every july .
aurangabad has plenty of well stocked shops and malls that will supply all requirements for toiletries , cosmetics , medicines and sundries like camera films etc .
as one stands surrounded by the stillness of the ruins one can well imagine the town at the height of its glory as the capital of chavdas .
the statues were carved by four greek sculptors : bryaxis , leochares , scopas , and timotheus , each responsible for one side .
the site of the ancient bhardwaj ashram , said to have been visited by lord rama on his way to the forest now lies in the centre of the city .
even in summer , the evenings tend to be cool so do carry a light wrap with you .
if you fancy a laid back holiday in a hundred year old colonial bunglows set in 39 acres of greenery , sitla estate mukteshwar is the place you .
natives called the place cha lang , which evolved to tha lang the name of the main town to the north of the island .
in the garden city you can visit also the maharaja 's palace and government buildings .
the garba on the other hand , is an equally fascinating , although a little more complex dance .
when the jesuit fathers first arrived in brazil they found that the indians performed ritual songs and dances accompanied by rudimentary wind and percussion instruments .
right next to the charminar , this 400 year old market , laad bazaar sells every thing from kitchen implements to diamond jewellery .
the spread of settlers in the east brought the ottawa , the huron , and other native american tribes into wisconsin , where they in turn displaced native tribes .
state museum , a representative collection of himachal pradesh 's rich heritage exhibits include archeological artifacts , carvings , paintings and sculptures .
built by the east india company in 1639-1640 , the fort marks the beginning of madras as a modern city .
also one can see the hayagriba madhava temple reached by a long stone stairway .
the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
a great al fresco beachside restaurant keeps you happy and , if you overdo there , there s the swimming pool to keep you fit .
the fort william was named after king william lli of england , and in the fort are a church , market , post and telegraph office , cinema , swimming pool , boxing stadium , football and firing range .
there is a museum inside the junagarh fort which has collections of valuable antique objects .
delhi today is one of the most elegant capitals in the world .
kewzing village is the place to stay if you want a first-hand experience of sikkimese rural life .
singapore has been voted the best business city in the world for the fifth year running by readers of the business traveller asia-pacific magazine .
the semi-circular falls bring together both the iguassu and parana rivers , as well as brazil and argentina .
this lovely and unique piece of architecture was constructed on a narrow strip of land located in between two water tanks .
in the mountain areas warm clothes are generally a must .
kalimpong 's attractions include three buddhist monasteries , spectacular churches , an excellent private library for the study of tibetan and himalayan language and culture , a sericulture centre and a fine view of the surrounding countryside .
attracted by the promise of abundant land and game , settlers flocked through the cumberland gap or down the ohio river to kentucky .
the islands are now fast becoming an attractive holiday destination for the anthropologist and the beach lover .
although kentucky declared itself a neutral state , both the union and confederate governments recognized its strategic potential , and both sides recruited openly .
glenburn is one of the tea gardens in darjeeling to take in guests .
during the nine days , the state government arranges music , dance , folk dance , doll shows , wrestling and sports competitions .
built in 1942 , mahesh vilas palace heritage property has luxurious rooms , and a billiards room for a game or two .
to reach thenamtok khlong thom waterfall visitors should travel 45 kilometers from town to amphoe khlong thom , then take sukhaphiban 2 road for another 12 kilometers .
minjar is the most popular fair of chamba which is attended by a large number of people from every nook and corner of the district .
indoor climbing gyms help in developing many skills in outdoor climbing especially rock climbing .
just 27 km north of ajmer is the small erstwhile kingdom of kishangarh , whose remarkable contribution to rajasthans culture has been in the field of painting .
for one , it has been a popular hill retreat right from the days of tipu sultan who is said to have visited here occasionally .
ask them in amritsar , and they will tell you that if for nothing else you must travel here for the roadside chhola bhaturas .
one of bangalore 's most attractive features continues to be its pleasant weather .
the state capital is baton rouge , other major cities or towns include lake charles , monroe , new orleans , and shreveport .
in 1570 the spanish started a religious mission on the rappahannock river near the site of fredericksburg , but native americans wiped it out .
today , it takes in guests from all over the country as temporary members , so you have no excuse to miss out .
this picturesque waterfall adds to the beauty of mussoorie as the queen of hill stations in india .
hotels and resorts at dadra & nagar haveli usually arrange various tribal dance performances for visitors , a great way to lose yourself in wholly alien culture .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
the ruins of those periods can still be seen on the bellary road , at lal bagh , ulsoor and gavi gangadhareswar temple .
in october , the streets of gujarat are filled once again with people heading out to different venues to dance the night away .
other sites of note are the 5th century agastyatirtha tank , the fort and the bhutanath temples .
for top of the line five star hotels , you have to drive a few kilo meters further away .
the majority of the work is from the 7th and 8th centuries ad though .
it goes without saying , but don t forget while you re visiting nagaland .
the gaunt interiors of the fort transport you back to an era long gone .
in ad 956 , an earthquake shook alexandria , and caused little damage to the lighthouse .
it also broke a taboo , culminating in court decisions which stripped him of his immunity from prosecution although the former ruler has not been prosecuted yet .
you will also find beautifully carved wood and bamboo items , including furniture and lovely knick knacks .
also distinctive for their fine workmanship area velvet , satin and silk bags , with zari floral motifs , used by the women bhopal to keep cosmetics and suparis .
chandika temple , this beautiful shrine of goddess chandika attracts large number of devotees during the holy navratras .
however , since local entrepreneurs and technology giant texas instruments discovered bangalore potential as a high-tech city in the early 1980 's .
mahabodhi temple bihar the anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by raja anaji sometime in the 1150 a.d. .
the nearest railhead is in ratlam ( madhya pradesh ) which is 80km from kumbhalgarh and is connected with all the major cities of the country .
the islands long history has shaped the distinctive phuket of the present with its diverse ethnic groups , culture , architectural influence , and fine cuisine .
281 kilometers south of bangkok , hua hin , which literally means stone head in thai , is the oldest beach resort of the country and is still very popular .
when st paul visited the city , the temple was adorned with golden pillars and silver statuettes , and was decorated with paintings .
the many state-of-the-art shopping centers , recreation complexes and toll-roads have become hallmarks of the city .
the tandoori lobster , fish tikka and prawn curry , all three simply scrumptious , it is recommended without hesitation .
visitors are treated to some of the most fabulous dance performances .
they are mostly located in the quieter cantonment area and the new tourist complex .
the ancient indian tradition of ayurveda is a holistic science of preventive and therapeutic treatments that detoxify and cure not just the body but also the mind and soul .
every summer , mughals would travel from their capital cities in the plains of india to their beloved valley .
about 100 kilometres to the north of prachuap khiri khan is hua hin , thailand 's first beach resort which is renowned for golf and spa .
everybody who goes to ajmer makes the half hour bus journey up nag pahar to the town of pushkar .
in agra the main shopping areas are the sadar bazar , kinari bazar and munro road .
the first is a mere half an hour by bus from badami while the second takes a two hour journey .
jaisalmer , an important ancient trading centre because of its strategic location on the camel trade routes , is often described as the ' golden city .
in kipling camp meals are fairly good and you can request chef to rustle up your favourite food too .
during the great fire of london in 1666 , samuel pepys climbed to the top of the church 's brick tower to watch the fire 's progress .
the umaid bhawan palace was built in the 20th century as a famine relief project , providing employment to its people over a time period of 16 long years .
the enchanting hawa mahal is a multi-layered palace , with a profusion of windows and stone screens .
today , ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the hindus as well as muslims .
skip on coconut milk , laze in the sun or scout around for more signs of life .
today , oklahoma boasts the largest native american population in the nation ( 252 , 420 ) .
however , some argue that antarctica is changing , and by human made causes rather than natural ones .
the city of ajmer lies in the heart of rajasthan , some 130 km west of jaipur .
the village of kumarakom is a cluster of little islands on the vembanad lake , and this small water world is part of the kuttanad region .
allahabad is among the largest cities in uttar pradesh .
the nicobari huts , with their traditional decor , are a treat for eyes , the bar aptly named after bacchus , has tasty seafood appetizers .
iromba is best eaten with steamed rice while it s fresh .
most sculptures are religious in nature , and borrow heavily from mythological themes .
the best way to experience nepal 's unbeatable combination of natural beauty and cultural riches is to walk through them .
but , if you chose carefully , andhra pradesh is as rewarding a destination as its more popular neighbours , tamil nadu , kerala and karnataka .
shermay 's cooking school is where cookbook author , shermay , teaches cooking in her own demonstration kitchen .
bangalore is directly connected by rail with ahmedabad , mumbai , calcutta , cochin , delhi , guwahati , howarah , hyderabad , mangalore , chennai , mysore , nagpur , tiruvananthapuram , vasco-da-gama ( goa ) and other cities in india .
the ground floor is divided up into sumptuous leather upholstered booths , whilst downstairs the ambience is slightly calmer with plenty of room and a feeling of exclusivity .
pori festival is celebrated in lahaul with enormous fanfare .
the fort of khimsar has a lot of diversity in its architecture .
just before world war ii it was turned into a hotel with large rooms , deep fireplaces and baize billiard tables .
bangkok was founded in 1782 by the first monarch of the present chakri dynasty .
the marwar festival is held every year in memory of the heroes of rajasthan .
the galleries have working models in popular science , motive power , mining , metals , petroleum , electricity , communications and electronics .
the vigorous upper reaches of the yellow river starts in qinghai province to hekouzhen in inner mongolia .
for a authentic and delightful culinary experience in the heart of hyderabad , walked into zafraan laguna , a restaurant as exotic as its name .
when the famous arab traveler ibn battuta visited alexandria in 1349 , he could not enter the ruinous monument or even climb to its doorway .
also scrumptious breakfast favourite are the jalebis , made of maida and sugar syrup , the orange swirls are deep fried in vast amount of ghee .
cowboy state , equality state , big sky , wyoming was named from two delaware indian words mecheweamiing , which are translated ' at the big flats ' ( large plains .
since the nineteenth century , archeological excavations have been undertaken at the mausoleum site .
an insignificant looking board bearing the name of kynance hangs from a tree and is discernible to only those tourists who have an eye for details .
you ll struggle with dormitory accommodation , looking for cheap grub , and trying to figure out bus routes and timings but you ll just about survive .
the grand fort presides over the lovely bekal beach .
arbuda , the hill serpent descended from the hills to act as a savior for lord shiva 's bull , nandi .
it also carries an inscription in persian declaring jahangirs accession to the mughal throne .
this is kumarakom , one of the worlds most talked about destinations .
the rivers like the sutlej , beas ( in himachal pradesh ) , teetsa ( in sikkim ) , and yamuna also offer sporting challenges .
flora & fauna sub alpine and alpine forests are found in the upper reaches of the himalayas .
ooty is a land of picturesque picnic spots .
twin bridges which comprise shide bridge and yongan bridge are the most famous and is considered the symbol of zhouzhuang .
apart from the geological , zoological , botanical and anthropological galleries , there are outstanding archaeological exhibits .
it is an experience alien to the sense of safety and stability enjoyed by four-wheel drivers and participants of jeep safaris .
ramgarh bungalows , located in an area famous for its orchards , ramgarh bunglows carry more than a whiff of raj nostalgia .
a lovely natural harbor and winding creek set off the city of mumbai from the long , narrow coast of western india .
that 's more than the turnover of the next three largest centers , new york , tokyo and singapore combined .
schools of music existed in bahia in the early 17th century and religious music was played in churches throughout the colony .
amidst such solitude , adventurous travelers will discover an ethereal landscape that lingers in the memory .
there is live entertainment every monday followed by karaoke every thursday night .
the city of allahabad is among the largest cities of uttar pradesh and situated at the confluence of three rivers ganga , yamuna and the invisible saraswati .
home of pandit motilal nehru and his son pandit jawaharlal nehru , this house has now been turned into a museum memorabilia of the nehru family are displayed here .
an ancient town that lies 56 km south of aurangabad , paithan is renowned for its famous paithani silk saris .
around & about by air aurangabad airport is 10 km east of the city and is connected by daily flights to mumbai and delhi via udaipur and jaipur .
durgam ceruvu is near madhapur , just beyond shilparamam and hitec city in hyderabad , boats and angling equipments are available on hire .
ajanta lies 99 km northeast , about two hours away by road , while ellora is much closer , just 30 km to the northwest .
one of the most centrally located hill station of uttar pradesh ; almora is based at a height of 1646 meters .
copies of the statue were made , including a large prototype at cyrene ( libya ) .
thalassery was the first british settlement on the malabar coast .
in karnataka there are the chamundi hills .
tea gardens at munnar the other hill states of himachal pradesh and jammu and kashmir provides a breathtaking variety of the himalayan splendor .
in addition , the phi phi islands are famous as the location where the movie `` the beach `` featuring leonardo di caprio was shot .
today , the province of ubon ratchathani is the largest and one of the most important provinces in northeastern thailand .
the union territory daman is divided by the river damanganga into nani daman in the north and moti dman in the south .
parikshith thampuran museum adjacent to the shiva temple was the durbar ( court ) of the cochin rajas .
government central museum was constructed in 1876 when prince of wales has visited india and opened to public in 1886 .
charminar is a rectangular four arched monumental gate often described as ' the arch of triumph of the east .
a bride s wardrobe will , 99 out of 100 cases , have at least one mysore silk sari .
unlike other sanctuaries , however , the building was made of marble , with a decorated facade overlooking a spacious courtyard .
the place does become a little too crowded on saturdays and sundays , but a walk on the heath should relieve any sense of claustrophobia .
bengkulu province has an indigineous community consisted of manna , muko-muko , and minang .
hotels in agartala offer basic amenities and few have air conditioned rooms .
the ceremonial masks and lamps make for exceedingly attractive gifts .
live counters of teppanyaki , yakitori , korean , barbeque as well as a well-stocked noodles bar bring authentic oriental food to you .
prehistoric paintings of men , animals , human organs and numerous seashells can be seen in the tham phi hua to cave .
one of the newest areas of nepal open to trekkers is the southern part of shey-phoksundo national park .
the exquisite medieval art & architecture of the kathmandu valley vividly reflect the artistic ingenuity and the religious tradition of the people .
rajasthan is a treasure-trove of temples art & architecture .
the marble mausoleum is square in plan with chamfered corners .
prince karamasi originally built the fort , the fort was originally built as a protection of the village from foreign or neighboring invasions .
inhabited by the friendly lushai tribes , this is a great escape during the summers .
little of the former glory of majapahit empire , still stands in east java to day with the exception of temple ruins and some archaeological discoveries .
queen didda was the defector ruler of the state , as she was very dominating and exercised immense influence over her husband .
the professionals come from the fields of geographic information systems , wildlife management , wildlife photography , marine biology and oceanography , national and state park management , environmental sciences , women in development , historians and archaeologists , etc .
shah jahan s cenotaph is higher and to the left it has a pen box inscribed on it , which symbolizes a male ruler .
for a breathtaking beautiful view of the taj mahal , see it by moonlight .
national museum , it houses an excellent collection of bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
this temple is located on the neel parvat that is located on the banks of the river ganga in haridwar in uttaranchal , india .
the archaeological survey of india also has a guesthouse with spacious well furnished rooms at a very low rate .
what s more , there is a strong and vibrant tribal culture here .
an india travel destination tour takes the tourist to this queen among the hill stations in india in himachal pradesh .
your journey promises joy , serenity and a deeper understanding of one of the greatest thinkers of india .
in india , the popularity of polo has waned and risen many time .
aurangabad is connected to all major cities and towns by good roads .
besides the above-mentioned temples there are many other temples that are worth visiting during your temple tours to orissa in india .
the three rivers being kundala , nallathali and mudrapuza that adds to the beauty of the place to be discovered .
i remember the sunday breakfasts i had as a child at mtr , bangalore .
when in bhedaghat , pick up the pure white idols or linga , jewellary boxes and animal - shaped curios , which you will find in tiny leading down to the narmada ghat , made of soapstone , they make lovely gifts .
raising and racing thoroughbreds also became a lucrative endeavor , and the kentucky derby grew in popularity after the first race in 1875 .
a must visit , however , is the handicraft centre at the tribal cultural museum in silvassa .
watch the skittish , colorful koi carps , imported from thailand , in action as you sip a classy cocktail .
both day and night the animated local bars and restaurants are alive with people dancing to many types of music .
tipu 's palace resembles the daria daulat palace at srirangapatna , tipu 's capital .
like taimur in the punjab and delhi , dulucha carried sword and fire , destroyed towns and villages and slaughtered thousands .
north of kullu is a beautiful spot , in the midst of pinewood with high mountains towering above it .
ancient accounts such as those by strabo and pliny the elder give us a brief description of the `` tower `` and the magnificent white marble cover .
made in rewa and indore , ice jewellary has a golden sheen created by coating tin foil with melted lac .
carry your own bottles of water while traveling .
most of the tribes in arunachal pradesh tend to follow the techniques of jhumming , shifting agriculture and terrace farming in order to grow crops and survive .
the birla planetarium is also quite a crowd-puller. .
its effect was a burst of almost ethereal clarity , of the kind only metal creates , piercing the architectural landscape of paris .
others fly in to the village of lukla to start their trek .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
due to their awesome height and spread , garhwal and kumaon , like other areas in the himalayas , offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing , round the year .
the quality of life and the general welfare of its inhabitants have improved considerably with the city 's fast pace of development .
the suitable period for river running depends on the adequacy of water volume .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
khorat s people are involves in agricultural activities that include farming of rice and other crops such as sugar cane , tapioca , corn , jute , peanuts , sesame and fruits .
climb onto the boat at diu jetty and head there to admire the lighthouse and the church dedicated to our lady of the sea .
the end of result is a plate of delectable chakem , a whole meal in itself .
one more work of wonder to be seen here is an iron pillar that still remains unrusted .
there are up state road transport ( upsrtc ) as well as private buses plying to and from agra .
dazzling shopping arcades , exciting sport activity , night clubs and discotheques , theatre and music , gourmet restaurants and interesting sightseeing - mumbai offers the visitor a heady mix of all this and more .
during your temple tours to this region you can visit temples like the aranya devi temple , durga temple , mandar hill temple , kurkihar temple , chutia temple , hariharnath temple , mundesvari temple , parasnat temple , vaisali temple and the masarah temple .
although navaratri celebrations are spectacular all over gujarat ahmedabad , vadodara , ambaji , and poshina are the some areas where celebrations are particularly grand .
deep fried fish ( usually sanwal ) coated with yoghurt mixed with coriander , garlic and green chillies is another must try .
the 6 km trek from kedarnath to vasukital ( 4135 m ) is a continuous ascent along a goat track , and offers a wonderful panoramic view of the chaukhamba peaks .
kumarakom enjoys a tropical climate almost round the year .
ramanagaram is also an important silk cocoon market .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to jammu and kashmir , india .
khwaja saheb is also known as sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar .
in mizoram , meat translates to pork , and you can pamper your tastebuds with a number of pork preparations .
at-sunrice is a culinary centre dedicated to promoting pan-asian cuisine , culinary skills and craft ware .
trains connect udhagamandalam indirectly to the rest of the country .
the adi granth is housed in the ground floor of the akal takht and is taken out in procession every morning to be placed at the harmandir sahib .
according to popular legend , sage markandey stayed here and this sacred place was visited by the hindu deity lord shiva in the disguise of a tiger .
there s all this and much more .
they will also know what you mean when you say dbc , the popular acronym for death by chocolate , which is probably the flagship dessert at the corner house .
major game fishing contests are run according to the rules of the international game fishing association which mandates a catch and release requirement for sharks , underweight fish , and billfish such as marlin and sailfish .
the other fascinating and important shrine located inside the chidambaram nataraja temple is the govindaraja perumaal .
canoa quebrada is approximately 100 miles from fortaleza , one of the fastest growing tourism destinations in the country , and a true gem of the northeast .
the constant variations of the regular fish curry are also recommended .
science city has space theatre .
he documented a wealth of information and gave an accurate description of the structure which helped modern archeologists reconstruct the monument .
balsamand lake & palace is an artificial lake is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 ad .
the purpose , primarily , is to dine like a king .
people of ubon ratchathani are religious and still abide by tradition and culture .
the best season for river rafting is from april to september .
with his honor and dignity severely compromised , he withdrew from business .
the town has an airstrip and tele-communication facilities .
this ancient temple was constructed almost a thousand years ago though historians are not very clear about the exact age of this ancient temple .
at adinarayan bhojanalaya it is preferable to ask waiter s recommendation instead of diving into the menu .
it is the best option in this town , with great food and well appointed rooms .
itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical ita fort , and other tourist attractions here would be gyaker sinyi or the ganga lake .
another important pilgrimage in the region is the dhanuskodi that is located in rameshwaram .
the best months for water sports are october and march .
sibsagar city 's attractions include temples of shivdol , vishnudol and devidol , rang ghar talatol ghar , joysagar-the biggest man-made lake and ahom museum .
there are many old temples to visit besides enjoying the picturesque environs .
the tanjore paintings have , over the centuries , remained traditional , featuring gods , and goddesses , and religious themes , in a subtle composition and stunning blend of colors .
after the eclipse of utpala dynasty , lohara dynasty ruled kashmir till the end of the hindu rule in kashmir ( 1339 ) .
the mahaparinirvana temple is one place that you must visit during your tours to historical places in kushinagar , bihar , india .
european voyages of discovery began when columbus discovered the islands of the `` new world `` in 1492 .
the big chill s range of soups , salads , pastas and tempting desserts is sure to satisy all cravings , especially those involving melting cheese .
there are eight vehicular ways and two footpaths on this bridge on the river hooghly .
in 1825 , some of them returned to re-establish a town and established a rice farming community .
if you can stand the rajasthan heat of may-june then save your trip for this festival when thousands from across india arrive at ajmer on pilgrimage during this auspicious period .
select from beautifully crafted mats that area made with traditional materials and have tribal motifs ideal gift for people back home .
`` pietra dura `` the inlay works on marble so characteristic of the taj was first used .
it is a matter of pride that this 2000-year-old art of weaving continues , with families passing on their creative skills to younger generations .
close contenders are the many varieties of avakkai ( mango ) tamarind and the red hot chillipickle ( that makes even the natives break out in sweet .
gmvn has developed a water sports resort at asan barrage .
slip your feet in chatai chappals and chill out at the rooftop pool with a book , or take a swim , to give your tired conscience a rest .
it is a three and half day 's trek from jumla to rara national park .
they were mainly from the eastern united states , canada , and northern europe .
guru arjan dev laid the foundations of the city of ramdaspur in 1588 and the temple complex was completed in 1601 .
india as a naturally endowed country is rich in natural beauty .
this mango tree restaurant is just 15 minutes away from hampi bazaar .
when europeans first visited the region , the wichita and other relatively sedentary indian tribes inhabited the east .
shimla as one of the most popular hill stations in india is also home to two churches of the order of christ church and the neo gothic tudor library building .
a rich choice of indian and continental fare is on offer but you go for the maratha dishes difficult to get elsewhere , expect in gwalior homes .
if you are looking for above-average lodging facilities , hotel saramati three-star hotel in dimapur is a very good bet .
pioneer hotel s polo bar is on of the silvassa s most popular upmarket watering holes , and known for its indian seafood dishes .
around the corner is bharat bhawan , bhopal s cultural centre for performing arts and tribal craft where you can catch a show in the evening .
the gala reminds us of the eternal scuffle between good and evil which is portrayed by a stimulated colorful battle between the inhabitants of malana and archhandi village .
according to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the hindu deity lord shiva was meditating when his consort uma 's cry shook him out of his meditation .
there are displays of archaeological finds from the katyur and chand periods .
for centuries , pattaya was a small fishing village almost cut off from the outside world .
you can also look forward to the excellent meals served in the garden gourmet cuisine fit for a maharaja and breakfast served on the ramparts of the fort .
the city of london is a strange place .
tour to mandi kinnaur is a land of rich green valley , ripe orchards , vineyards , snow-covered peaks and cold desert mountains .
in taj mahal trees were planted carefully in accordance with the symmetry of the overall plan .
the surya pahar temple is located in goalpara in assam , india .
of all the notable mountains in china , mount huangshan , to be found in the south of anhui province , is probably the most famous .
drop in at the bar to sample the authentic local brew and have your fill of sikkimese delicacies at the restaurant .
the walls are jam packed with posters and pop arts , complementing the lovely art dark wood everywhere .
the best preserved of these stone temples are at martand and avantipur .
of the many popular malls of gurgaon , gold souk , which opened last year , stand out for its single minded dedication to metallic indulgence .
kasuti derives it s geometric from various temple sculptures , and has for themes animals , birds , gods and goddesses .
given north india s obsession with weddings , clothe and jewellery , delhi is where your trousseau shopping should begin and end .
accommodation at the top end hotels can be expensive but food is cheap .
chakhna is a lunch time special made of goat intestines and leftover meat portions , eaten with kulchas .
indian airlines connect guwahati with calcutta , delhi , bagdogra , imphal , agartala , dibrugarh .
the grounds are surrounded by high building walls on all sides , except a narrow access lane .
the asiatic society started a public museum in 1814 .
camel safaris provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional indian life in the desert , with all the hardships , the beauty and the desolation .
the london coliseum is also just down the road on st .
mehrangarh fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city .
a plethora of holiday camping options are available in the himalayan belt , where soft adventure tourism is packaged with holiday camping to create an acceptable eco-tourism product .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
about 200 km from shimla strikingly beautiful district of kinnaur where the the river satluj carved deep gorges through the high mountains .
thenzawl is a picturesque hill station and also worth a visit .
we would wake up as early as 6 a.m. and make it to mtr for rava idli , badam milk and the special fruit salad .
it was said that a million workers including one hundred thousand artisans were driven into the long-term hard labor .
accommodation is available at a local guesthouse but hardly anyone stays over at aihole .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
than bok khorani national park covers an area of 37.5 rai of land in tambon ao leuk tai .
we have no monuments or heritage buildings to boast of , but the state s scenic beauty is unparalleled .
while on temple tours to bihar in india you get an opportunity to discover the glorious religious heritage and past of india .
the pagoda like tazia tower rises from the badal mahal ( palace of clouds ) , each storey of this five-tiered tower has a beautifully carved balcony .
hotels have restaurants attached to them and primarily serve indian food .
the central market building in paris , les halles , was erected in 1853 by victor baltard and felix callet .
also the museum inside the mehrangarh fort has a rich collection of miniatures , musical instruments , costumes , armoury etc .
they include ceramic ware , tibetan revolving wheels or the thangkas , carved walking sticks and the ladhaki shawls .
thalang town was surrounded by burmese troops who invaded the coastal area in 1785 .
java language with various dialects is the daily language used by most of central java people but bahasa indonesia as mother tongue .
comprising more than 300 ethnic groups speaking 200 different languages , the indonesia population exhibits marked diversity in its linguistic , culture , and religious traditions .
by secret treaty in 1802 , spain ceded the louisiana territory back to france .
the buildings are connected by a maze of raised multi-level walkways .
meng rai himself was very religious and founded many of the city 's temples , which are still important today .
the bridge and the surrounding area get their name from an order of dominican monks who had a monastery here .
chandani chowk , where mouthwatering food overflows into the streets , as aromas and flavours infuse the crammed galis .
choose from jungle retreats and heritage hotels in forts and palaces , or just opt for a tiny guesthouse in the back of beyond .
as the eastern lands were settled , more indians moved to sparsely inhabited arkansas .
drive to the delightful khanvel forest rest house , a tastefully constructed complex with attractive brick cottages .
you can also equip yourself with mountaineering or trekking gear from the specialty stores in town .
many of the palaces inside the fort were later added by next generations of mughal emperors like jahangir and shahjahan .
shop for everything from exquisite jewellary to the most cutting edge technology for your home to health and beauty products to keep looking young .
the royal chitwan national park , established in 1973 , provides a great wildlife experience with its rich flora and fauna .
by road you can easily drive in as aurangabad is well connected by road to the towns and cities around it .
on the banks of the river mandakini , and centre of ritual activity , this ram ghat is the most frequented in chitrakoot .
in the past , chiang mai was only accessible by river and elephants .
on the way to the chamundeswari temple , there is a monolithic statue of nandi bull and a mortar statue of mahishasura .
ooty is used to be popular summer and weekend getaway for the britishers during the colonial days .
the khasis , jantias and garos are the main tribes of meghalaya and each hs its own culture , language , customs and festivals .
marble arch was marooned in the middle of this roundabout in the mid 19th century .
daman delight is also known for its stuffed pomfret and you must also try the dara fish , a local delicacy that tastes great when cooked in a fiery curry .
a year later , a peace treaty was signed and ecuador 's boundaries were permanently established .
the main north entrance is under a victorian clock tower .
the ooty lake , this artificial lake was constructed by john sullivan , the first collector of ooty .
paper handmade from tree bark is a speciality here .
do n't expect to see the queen 's private apartments , garden or swimming pool , and you certainly wo n't meet her majesty .
the most celebrated temples of osian are the surya or sun temple and the sachiya mata temple .
the second floor of hotel is done up in country style , with pine furniture , wooden floors and cosy patchwork quilts .
the clock 's four dials each have a diameter of 23ft , the minute hands are 14ft long and the numerals on each face are nearly 2ft high .
homestay is the ultimate way to experience the naga way of life , i recommend it highly .
hazaribagh has an excellent climate with beautiful sceneries all around it in the midst of dense forest and it is rich in flora and fauna .
8 kms from almora is the hilltop shrine of ( goddess durga ) , where swami vivekananda sat in meditation .
a short walk north of the dargah brings you to the oldest surviving monument of ajmers muslim rule , the remarkable adhai din ka jhonpara .
indian houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and traveling industry .
buses or taxis available outside the jaipur airport can be hired for the drive to ajmer .
fatehpur sikri is richly decorated structure is a quaint mixture of styles .
although tennessee joined the confederacy during the civil war , there was much pro-union sentiment in the state , which was the scene of extensive military action .
the peach state , goober state , cracker state , georgia was named by james oglethorpe for king george ii .
although the lighthouse of alexandria did not survive to the present day , it left its influence in various respects .
the nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn , attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty .
continuous innovations ensure that there is always something new and exciting to look forward in terms of both design and material , at ganjam .
$ 45 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
agra fort is located on the banks of the yamuna near the railway station .
there are also some camp sites and paying guest accommodations available .
the climate of aurangabad is temperate with moderate winters in the months of november-february and hot summers from april through to june .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , is well resourced enough to undertake tours to chithirapuram as a lesser known but worth-a-visit hill station in india .
pal and swaran dhaba top the list for some great non vegetarian fare , especially the mutton apart from standard dhaba dishes such as dal makhni .
skand and some other puranas rank ayodhya as one of the seven most sacred cities of india .
all in all , bangalore is a lovely city to visit .
there are two temples on either side of the main palace , dedicated to lord krishna and lord shiva .
taj mahal for short , this popular mangalore restaurant has two branches , be careful it s probably a sin to not finish off every meal with the taj mahal special coffee .
let your senses sway to the romance of the surroundings as you pass forts , palaces , historical landmarks and villages .
sprawling on the banks of the river yamuna , delhi , bahai temple the capital of india , typifies the soul of the country .
over the centuries amritsar has witnessed a bloody struggle for survival .
visit goa and experience firsthand how life should really be lived .
drass , 60 km west of kargil on the way to srinagar , is the second coldest place in the world , but the summers here are beautiful .
every spring the stones of khajuraho come to life during the prestigious 7-day khajuraho dance festival when the glory of the temples is celebrated with true fervour and joy .
the island groups of surin and similan are renowned for their beautiful unspoilt beaches and spectacular underwater scenery , attracting divers from around the world .
honeymoon in khajuraho is a treat to be ravished when it comes to the door of the newly weds .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it .
when phuket was elevated to a town in 1850 , it attracted more immigrants from thalang and nearby communities .
the musi river passing through the middle of hyderabad city flows in an easterly direction .
these andaman and nicobar islands shimmer like emeralds in the bay of bengal .
as most hotels have promotional rates available from time to time , we recommend that you check directly with the hotel before making any reservations .
there is no evidence that a statue of the goddess herself was placed at the center of the sanctuary , but there is no reason not to believe so .
motorists are required to produce valid road tax discs and insurance certificates for their cars when purchasing the autopass card .
kumarakom lake resort is an island of peace and fanciful luxury .
much of the state 's population is descended from european immigrants who came to nebraska in the late 19th century .
an amusement park with cable car is being developed to attract more and more tourists in palampur .
a rock portion projecting outwards like a roof at nearly 180 * is called a roof .
backround s shades are subtly reflected on the white marble surface of the taj mahal , which changes its color and complexion accordingly .
the city is full of architectural delights .
follow it up with some crisp beef chill fry .
the cave temples and monasteries at ellora , excavated out of the vertical face of an escarpment are 26 kms north of aurangabad .
jakarta is a city of contrasts ; the traditional and the modern , the rich and the poor , the sacral and the worldly , often stand side by side in this bustling metropolis .
plenty of hired transport is easily available , be it cars , jeeps , minibuses or muvs and almost all come with experienced drivers .
it featured in the film four weddings and a funeral as the spot of hugh grant 's ill-fated marriage ceremony .
mysore also celebrates the national festivals of independence day , the republic day and the birthday of gandhiji .
during the 1890s , there were several thousand japanese laborers constructing the railroad through idaho .
the internal core was used as a shaft to lift the fuel needed for the fire .
changing money in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
inlaid furniture and carvings are also available in plenty , especially in the shimoga , uttara kannada and mysore districts .
one of hyderabad 's prime attractions is the salar jung museum , the world 's largest collection by a single individual , sir yusaf ali salar jung iii .
welcome to the zafraan laguna , the restaurant as exotic as its name .
himachal is one of the oldest , most well estanlished and recognized tourist destinations in the country .
it is not exaggerating to say that yellow river is a melting port , because there are more than 30 branches and countless streams feeding it through its course .
because of their height and spread , garwhal and kumaon , like other sectors of the himalayas , are in a position to offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing the year .
but strangely enough , harsha 's career became a record of follies and misdeeds .
in 1682 , at the mouth of the mississippi , lasalle claimed the mississippi valley for france , but was later assassinated by two of his companions .
the people with typical costumes , folk dances , music and sports like polo and buzkashi provide the traveler an unforgettable experience .
a few minutes uphill from gangtok s main market .
cie , opposite the taj hotel in varanasi , has a wonderful collection of silk , brocades and handicrafts .
the tourist office will be able to assist those travelers looking for paying guest accommodation with local families .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world .
although shimla is a city teeming with restaurants , there isn t anything quite like the restaurant at the oberoi cecil .
the city being an important cantonment during the british raj has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture .
try a slice of britto s dark chocolate cake to end your meal on a mellow note .
after the mutiny of 1857 , the british shifted the headquarters of the northwestern provinces to allahabad .
the exposure is furthered by the arrangements of india travel destinations , the tour guide with its tours to nainital .
the new year is celebrated more enthusiastically in bangalore than any other festival .
the corridors , arches and man daps at the vimal vashi temple are richly and intricately carved .
the royal edifices take you to the magnificence of the bygone era .
taj mahal architecture has an impressive watercourse , which neatly divides the garden into four equal parts and heightens the flawless symmetry of the entire complex .
stark , black and ingeniously crafted into unlikely shapes , the world-famous wrought iron artifacts of bastar possess a strange , primitive beauty that you will never see elsewhere .
choice of accommodation in fatehpur sikri is limited .
make no mistake about it , with its ease of access , waterfront location and sense of history greenwich is the place that no self-respecting visitor can afford to miss .
the british established many hill stations in this region to protect themselves from the extreme heat and dust of the northern plains in the summer .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan 's capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
opened only recently to foreign tourists , the resort with its simple but attractive housing , have already become a circled spot in the brochures of tour operators all over .
you can also treat yourself to an impressive afternoon tea , accompanied by a string quartet or pianist .
eco-tourism focuses on local cultures , wilderness adventures , volunteering , personal growth and learning new ways to live on our vulnerable planet .
this was the biggest contract in his entire career in business , and also the one with the greatest risk .
oklahoma 's indians were generally left in peace by whites until the civil war .
when the british evacuated florida , spanish colonists as well as settlers from the newly formed united states came pouring in .
by this method the icon is first made in wax , then three layers of clay are applied on the wax model , and it is allowed to dry .
during the years that followed , the dakota and anishinabe tribes were forced to sign treaties to relinquish most of minnesota to the u .s . government .
the temperature of west sumatra province has ranges between 22o c and 32o c , and the rainfall is 2 , 289 mm per year .
many of these shrines have now been converted into a martyr s gallery showing the gruesome history of the sikhs .
as the sun shifts , the temple presents myriad views , each magnificent and captivating .
in june 1984 , hounded by the army and police , a heavily armed bhindranwale and his followers holed up in the golden temple complex .
muhammad bin qasim ( 711 ad ) and mehmood ghaznavi ( 11th century ad ) also invaded balochistan resulting in the development of muslim character .
the city is lined up with shops that have everything you need to stock up your kitchen shelves with .
dolpo lies between dhorpatan and rara and two of those treks could be combined into a single tour from pokhara to jumla .
a spacious dining hall lined with tables and busy waiters spooning out samber , buttermilk and chutneys to grab-a-bite office goers and shoppers abhiruchi is a no - frills restaurant .
the azure waters of karan , tilyar and damdama lakes augment the lush topography .
today the banqueting house is a popular visitor attraction and one of the finest banqueting venues in london , playing host to many royal and society occasions .
fountains , terraces , lotus pools , rose gardens and a deer park surround the magnificent glass house built in 1840 , on the lines of london 's crystal palace .
two flag staffs joined in the middle with the emblem of guru hargobind symbolize the dual aspects of sikhism religion and politics .
mysore is again connected with many trains to bangalore and also the prestigious luxury train , shatabdi express connects it to madras .
waterfalls thrive in the state , fed continually by the formidable monsoons .
household items made from bell metal are popular in mangalore and nagamangala , near mysore , is known for its bronze casting .
most business travelers find doing business in uttaranchal an exercise in frustration as the bureaucratic red tape slows things down , and the labor base is sluggish and unprofessional .
echo tourism is also an exciting physical challenge providing an aerobic workout and tones and develops your arms , shoulders and chest .
chug fa , shimla , this chinese restaurant is very popular with those on a shoestring budget .
as a perfect stopover sheltering traders from monsoons , jung ceylon welcomed merchants from india , persia , arabia , burma , china and also siam .
bupati ( regent ) and municipalities head the regency by walikota ( mayor ) .
visitors need permission to visit the fort , patalpuri temple , ashoka pillar and akshayavat from commandant , ordinance depot , and fort .
the state weaving centre has lovely paithani wall pieces as well .
woven for purposes such as fishing , catching birds , storing grain and filtering liquor .
kashmir s superlative feasts , the wazawan with its silken , curd-rich gravies .
dalhousie is at a distance of 80 km from pathankot .
however benbanca , is easily available at most goan , bakeries and a fairly decent version of it sells under the costa s brand .
in sambalpur , artisans not only offer you sarees but also loose fabric , bedspreads , tablecloths and more .
the spanish colonization was highly authoritarian and subject to all the inefficiencies of centralized planning .
don t miss out on buh-chhior , a kind of mizo biryani ( more like khichadi actually .
foreign currencies must be exchanged only through the banks or authorized foreign exchange .
navigator pedro alvares cabral founded the first european settlement on indian soil at cochin in 1500 .
from the days of civilization allahabd has been seat of learning , wisdom and writing .
clarke quay is singapore 's only riverside festival village combining dining , shopping and entertainment .
there is a beauty everywhere you look in maghalaya .
the fort is worth seeing for its elaborate and superb multi level defenses , as well as the excellent views of the surrounding countryside from the top .
surrounding by mango groves and rice fields are about a dozen attractive red-roofed cottage , each with a balcony where you can spend peaceful moments savouring the picturesque view .
a memorial tower stands within the park .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
the inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated .
the menu at windsor pub is primarily coastal , with limited but skillfully made continental dishes .
with the louisiana purchase of 1803 the northwestern half of north dakota became part of the united states .
of the six vanished wonders , the lighthouse of alexandria was the last to disappear .
in 305 bc , the antigonids of macedonia who were also rivals of the ptolemies , besieged rhodes in an attempt to break the rhodo-egyptian alliance .
the main shopping areas in varanasi for these fabrics and saris are chowk , vishwanath gali , lahurabir , godoulia , dashwamedh gali and golghar .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
the historic town of bithoor , once famous by the name of bavan ghaton ki nagri , ( city of 52 ghats ) today left with only 29 ghats .
the shimla ice skating rink has the largest open-air area with naturally frozen ice in this part of the world .
the viewpoint from where john smith first glimpsed the caves provides a magnificent sight of the u-shaped gorge and its scenic surroundings .
home to pandit motilal nehru , one of the most important leaders of the movement , allahabad hosted the first indian national congress in 1885 .
buses to nearby pattadakal and aihole are frequent .
all this will be covered by a tour to shimla undertaken by india travel destinations as the most primary hill station in india .
india has something for everyone looking for adventure .
he introduced new fashions in dress and ornaments .
a picturesque world of backwaters , thatched houseboats , cormorants , chinese fishing nets and swaying palms - an ideal getaway .
stop here for handicrafts in emporia like meghaloom , khadi emporium and tantuja , or pick up tibetan wares at glory s plaza .
built by the portuguese in around the 16th century , this roman catholic church is famous for the beautiful paintings on its ceiling .
the customer friendly fashion store in hyderabad , elahe is housed in a bungalow , which has been converted to suit the requirements of an outlet .
you could also walk to taplejung from basantapur which takes about three days .
geographically , it is closer to the temple of artemis .
ooty also known as udagamandalam is the queen of hill stations and the capital of nilgiris district .
here the mani rimdu festival of dances is celebrated every year .
most parks of thailand easily accessible by road , there exists excellent potential to expand the number of visitors who use them .
on january 23 , 1916 , residents of browning saw the temperature plummet exactly 100 degrees , from 44 degrees above zero to 56 degrees below zero .
the kamakhya devi temple is located at a little distance from guwahati , the capital city of assam , india .
indian museum , popularly known as jadu ghar ( magic house ) , this is the premier national collection in the subcontinent .
it has also been used as a meeting place for members of the commonwealth of nations since 1962 and is , alas , not open to the public .
there are festivities all around and agra truly puts on the colors of joy and gets transformed into one nonstop carnival .
the time of the year when nature dawns all its colorful splendor and agra bursts into colorful celebrations .
on the other hand , motorcyclists are not charged at the woodlands checkpoint .
the trekker in the process , also , gets an exposure to the intriguing socio cultural life of the people living in the chaudans , byans , and darma valleys .
lucknow has the best laddoos in india .
cinema houses are ubiquitous , some air conditioned , others not but all screen hindi and marathi films and hollywood hits .
this temple is supposed to be one of the six abodes of the hindu deity lord subramanya .
opened recently , nathu garden resort offers both naga food and if you miss hjome already , there s regular fare as well .
oregon 's nickname , the beaver state , harks back to the early years of the 19th century .
start with gyakho , a nutritious soup that , at its most royal , can use up to 108 ingredients .
udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes , well structured palaces , lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the lake palace and the city palace .
more mediterranean than maharashtrian , more goan than gujarati , diu is a tiny white pearl , hidden among the flashier jewels of he western coasts .
the taj complex also has emporia of several state governments .
natural walks along the river are a real treat and for adventure lovers rock climbing can be arranged .
october to march is the best time to visit the jaipur city .
local legends have it that the eyes of the statue of mary in bom jesus church have the power of hypnotize onlookers .
journey time between mumbai and goa is approximately 8 hours .
the products on offer in such a visit brokered by india travel destinations are of a varied array .
these perfectly symmetrical monuments took 22 years ( 16301652 ) of hard labor and 20 , 000 workers ; masons and jewelers to built and are set amidst landscaped gardens .
further south you can enjoy water adventures along both the west and the east coasts of india .
jaiselmer fort is the oldest fort in the world .
the coastal water surrounding the islands andamans and lakshadweep is the abode of one of the richest coral reef ecosystem is the world .
the best part about orissa is that it is relatively untouched and pure .
however , few relics of this memorable era remain .
hotels , resorts and lodges etc to suit all budgets are available at port blair and some other places also .
khwaja ishaq shami , one of his predecessors settled in a hamlet called chishti near hirat .
the temple of goddess saraswathi , the one and only temple of this deity in south india , located at basar is a famous pilgrim place .
some tour operators organize elephant safaris between jaipur and pushkar .
manali is a charming and ebullient hill station in india capping the hills in himalayas in himachal pradesh .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
india offers some unique destinations that are best reached in jeeps .
they maintained a good relationship with the mauryans so that they can remain independent for a long time .
the smell of fish , spices , cheese and vegetables permeates the air , as people of various ethnic groups from different village gather to haggle , bargain and barter .
chhattisgarh is also home to many indigenous tribes and communities .
one can reach kumbhalgarh by road from udaipur ( 84km ) and ranakpur which is 18km from kumbhalgarh .
allahabad s majestic fort has three magnificent galleries flanked by high towers .
shimla , kullu-manali and dalhousie are popular town centers .
the site india travel destinations offers you tour booking and online tour reservations for temple tours to the northeastern state of assam , india .
just nearby is kelmscott house , a gorgeous brick villa purchased by william morris from the poet george macdonald in the late 19th century .
fort union was established in 1828 , serving as a base of operations for john jacob astor 's american fur company , which controlled the region 's trade .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
the preceding sight-seeing sites are just a little part of the pretty attractions of zhouzhuang .
the raja however died before the delivery of the said items .
shimla variety of green chillies is extensively grown in the shimla hills to be sold to tourists and others .
mahabpdhi temple kushinagar is a historic site of great significance as it is here that lord buddha passed away .
away from the bustling markets , is a spot that marks grim memories of india s struggle for independence .
literally an oasis surrounded by the rocky aravalli hills ajmer is a major tourist destination because of its eventful history , spiritual sites and the neighboring village of pushkar .
facilities provided include a touring route , demonstrative research plant plots , parking areas , toilets and beverages .
khumbu region is the land of the sherpa people and the world 's great 8 , 000 meter peaks .
kishangarh is a veritable house of art and is renowned the world over for kishangarh miniature paintings .
this ancient and holy temple is located close to patnitop and is famous for the asad purnima festival that is organized here annually .
tucked away in the crowed streers of gandhi bazaar , vidyarthi bhawan has served its loyal patrons since 1938 .
maharastra is the perfect place to start on an enlightening tour .
a network of rivers runs through the state , with a wide variety of fresh water fish like mahaseer , hilsa , saul , rohu , mirgal , katla and trout .
myriad tribes who still preserve their own identities , cultures , traditions and lifestyles inhabit this state , which has stayed in glorious isolation for so long .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
a major tourist destination in the indian map today , bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century bce .
moreorless , it is the religious preferences and the agricultural practices followed by the tribes of arunachal pradesh , which account for the uniqueness of this hill station in india .
there is a lot one can pick up in handicrafts , but beware of the touts who lead you into shops that overcharge and pay a hefty commission .
the area of chonburi boasts abundant natural resources , which are highlighted by delightful beaches , local colors , traditions , delicacies and fresh seafood .
the farm is situated amidst the hills of lonavala and matheran , and is designed like an ethnic indian village .
this southwestern monsoon arrives here by end june september and the city receives a moderate amount of rainfall though the surrounding region varies from arid to semi arid to fertile .
during the 16th century , the island was also a popular trading port for tin with portuguese , dutch , english and french traders flocking to the island .
unfortunately , syal roti is not widely available in restaurants , but some of the posher hotels serve it .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
the tastier version , vouch locals , is the one prepared by boiling rice and pork / beef with spices made at home .
uppada , a beach town located 20 kms from kakinada is famous for beautifully designed cotton sarees .
other places to visit would be canary hill , hazaribagh lake , wild life sanctuary , tilaiya dam , rajrappa , konar dam .
the old section of the anand bhawan called was donated to the nation in 1930 by pandit motilal nehru .
if you want to get away from the bustle of the town and choose tranquil nature instead , orchid lake resort , umian , the place for you .
the most delightful stuff to take home from shimla consists of freshly bottled mushroom pickle , apple and cinnamon jam , and apple litchi juices .
dutch palace , also known as the mattancherry palace , was built by the portuguese and presented to the cochin raja in 1555 a.d. .
guwahati is connected by good motor able roads with shillong , kaziranga national park , manas wildlife sanctuary , dimapur , itanagar , imphal , agartala , aizwal , gangtok , darjeeling , calcutta , and kohima .
the museum also has photographs of the tribal groups and extensive information about their culture , and makes for a great learning experience .
bangkok is dotted with 400 glittering buddhist temples of great beauty and fascination , magnificent palaces , classical dance extravaganzas , numerous shopping centers and traditional ways of life .
kerala enjoys unique geographic features which has made it one of the most sought after tourist destinations in asia .
one hundred and thirty-one years later , two frenchmen named marquette and joliet visited arkansas briefly .
nainital , as a hill station in india enjoys a pride of place among other hill stations in india courtesy its natural charm and elegance .
rag dolls have colorful , spangled costumes and expressive , painted eyes make them attractive decoration pieces .
the main bana lingam that is situated in the main sanctum of the temple has a number of shiva lingams carved on it .
the biggest rivers found in the central java are serayu river , with its source from the dieng plateau and `` bengawan solo `` river .
couples who have a yen for adventure sports can go for a visit down ski lane to kufri , which is one of the best available skiing fields in india .
mhara gaam , with its ethnic decor , strategically situated wells and hukkas , and traditional sit-down community meals can be charming if you keep your mind open and your luxury needs low .
thailand , in the heart of southeast asia , was never colonised and thus kept its unique culture and heritage intact .
it is generally believed that large inhabitants of this region had actually migrated from central asia and the indian plains from time to time .
the fur trade inspired the founding of fort pierre , the first permanent settlement , in 1817 .
pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of india .
besides the local fare , chinese and south indian restaurants are also widespread .
trace gujarat s historical and cultural evolution of through the centuries at the unesco world heritage site of champaner pavagadh archeological park .
the mall cuts through the middle of royal london .
the northern point of the lake is called as mallital and the southern part as tallital .
the resort prides itself on its eco friendly policies , and the restaurant serves oraganic vegetables ( including preparations containing orchids , ferns and nettles .
it is believed that this saint achieved mahaparinirvana that liberated him from the cycle of birth and death .
on the edges of almora the koshi and suyal rivers cut through the mountains , while the hill sides are lined with fir and pine forests .
kanak bhawan has images of sri rama and sita wearing gold crowns. it is also known as sone-ke-ghar. .
phu wua wildlife sanctuary near the mekong river contains a number of beautiful waterfalls .
according to historical records this temple was built sometime in the 12th century .
other direct connections are to delhi ( 1395 km ) and one , every five days to amritsar via delhi .
it is in fact an enigma of mud huts & sky - scrapers , age old traditions & high fashions , the industrialists ' heaven & movie makers ' hollywood .
try not to think that lacquer is made of the refuse of the insects that tribals go about collecting in ferests , and this artwork will seem even better .
unusual animals are popular in the province , with the cobra and the turtle villages high on tourist programmes .
outside the fort is the main market place called manak chowk which is the centre of local activity .
rose garden situated in the heart of ooty town , this garden has been beautifully laid out in terraces with rose tunnels , pergolas and bowers with rose .
there are many tourist places one can enjoy seeing they are birla planetorium , state museum , zoological park , bird sanctuary and more .
the belur math shrine represents a church , mosque and temple when viewed from different angles .
large bags , cameras , phones , radios and cassette recorders can not be brought into the court and unfortunately there are no facilities to leave them outside .
on diamond harbour road , the gurusaday museum has a small but rich collection of the folk arts and crafts on undivided bengal .
the best time to visit jaipur city is in between october to march .
tripura is presently open to tourists and special permits are no longer required .
the hindu pilgrim city , paithan lies on the banks of the godavari , 56 km south of aurangabad .
peacock bar and restaurant is one of the most popular restaurants in diu , this place serves tasty tandoori pomfret and excellently prepared grilled fish with lemon butter sauce .
the white marble exteriors are faced in red stone and the altar displays fine marble inlay work .
the place also has a large auditorium .
if forts can be ornate , umaid bhawan palace is a palace we are talking about .
the best way to see sand dunes and other sights around jaisalmer is to take a camel safari .
manali is referred to as the `` cradle between the lesser himalaya .
the perfect accompaniments to a hot cuppa .
fort kearny was established along the route to protect these travelers .
important sites worth visiting in gokul include the gokulnath temple , raja thakur temple , gopal lalji temple and the morwala temple .
the duty on articles brought by the visitor varies according to the volume and value of the goods .
the decor at the orchid is very minimalist , built with sustainable raw materials and in a way that is requires minimal heating , lighting , and electricity .
though dadra & nagar haveli is not a typical shopping destination , it still does offer some unique and authentic buys at reasonable prices .
seminomadic and nomadic tribes included the cheyenne , cree , sioux , assiniboin , crow , and ojibwa ( chippewa ) .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
often inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones , the design essentially consists of coiled dragons on earings , pendants and rings .
it is the waters of the yellow river and its spirit that nurture the whole chinese nation .
uttar pradesh is an important centre of industry in the country .
today small shrines carved from teak are popular , as are traditional devakottai and karaikkudi panels , which are often used as wall decorations .
in 1915 , king rama vi changed the name chaiya to surat thani .
india is a vast country known for its diversified culture and traditions .
permits for climbing peaks in open zone , are issued by the ministry of tourism , within 24 hours of the receipt of application .
with none of the cookie cutter sameness of larger resorts , all rooms in nilaya hermitage features different color schemes and decor .
it is 80 km from mysore , and a similar distance from ooty , which takes 2 hours by road .
parasailing in india has another advantage attached to it .
phuket is divided into 3 administrative counties namely amphoe muang , amphoe thalang and amphoe kathu .
for seafood lovers , there is a lot more to sample than just phuket 's famous lobster .
to put it simply , pattaya is a paradise for everyone , as it has a variety of attractions suitable for all types of visitors .
first of all he set himself to finding a practical application for the tower , which had only been built to stand for twenty years .
if you like it hot , try hortense hot springs located in the san isabel national forest .
after years of losing land and wars to other indian groups and european colonists , the illiniweks were moved to a kansas reservation .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
his predecessors preferred agra , delhi or lahore all in the north , and aurangzeb 's move was not unopposed .
shri satya sai baba ashram is now more or less a suburb of bangalore , with increased access lines and more people moving into the neighborhood .
allahabad is a city of mixed culture of hindu , muslims , jains and christans .
on that day a ray of sunlight passes through an arch between the horns of stone bull that stands outside the temple and lights up the idol inside .
the palace has towers , open pavilions , summerhouses and little bridges , making it a great place to explore .
bangalore is one of asia 's fastest growing cities .
chail is a very small hamlet and a hill station where you can discover nature at its best untouched by the pollution , deforestation and modern construction .
and yet , this unashamedly capitalist crucible hides another side .
for dessert , try the laddoos in coconut and jaggery , let looks not put you off , these laddoos just melt in the mouth .
daman delight is easily one of the best places to eat in daman , the restaurant at hotel gurukripa comes closest to offering authentic damanese cuisine .
malinithan and bhismaknagar these are the two important archaeological sites in the arunachal pradesh .
it is one of the world 's economic giants and is revered for its football prowess , coffee production and distinctive music such as samba and bossa nova .
some 22 km from aurangabad is a small walled town , khuldabad ( also called rauza .
around some of the concrete corners there are unexpected surprises , like a couple of ancient churches that survived the bulldozer , and even sections of the old london wall .
the state of california , a chaotic mix of ethnicity s and incomes , hopes and cynicism was born .
made in a kaleidoscope of colors , and often interwoven with delicate gold thread , these saris have become an integral part of karnataka s heritage .
east java has a variety of attractions , from temple sites to scenic beaches , a sand-sea , highland-lakes , volcanoes , marine gardens and wildlife reserves .
during the decade of the 1830 's both the supply and price of beaver skins declined , forcing traders to turn to hunting buffalo .
indian nationals need no special permits to visit andamans , however permits are required to visit nicobar islands , issued by the deputy commissioner , andamans at port blair .
the sanctuary is an easy trek from pokhara and takes one through some of nepal 's most lovely rhododendron forests to the annapurna base camp .
nestled in a narrow valley , the beautiful vidyadhar 's garden was built in honor of jai singh 's chief architect and town planner .
karnataka is the meeting point of traditional and modern india , i feel any journey to india should begin from bengalooru ( formerly bangalore ) or mysore .
lake offers boating and sailing facilities and is a delight for the trigger happy photographs and film makers .
the red brick building spreads over five acres of land and houses one of the capital s best loved restaurants , the great kabab factory .
in 1792 captain george vancouver of britain became the first european to complete a detailed survey of the washington coast and the inland waters .
the eatery has a casual shake like atmosphere and serves some of the greatest goan food in the region .
almost all the gift shops in nainital have candles .
from kumarghat you can take a bus to agartala .
in mid-life aleijadinho contracted a crippling disease , but he continued to work for another 30 years with chisel and mallet strapped to his wrists .
indian airlines connect hyderabad with bhubaneswar , bangalore , mumbai , calcutta , delhi , chennai , nagpur and vishakapatnam .
one can hike to the back of the valley or take numerous optional trips to explore glacier-filled side canyons .
the terrain that india provides from the deserts to the beaches , to the mountains tests not only the skills of the realists but also their mettle .
jamavar is the leela s indian specialty restaurant , which takes you through a culinary journey into the ancient art of dining .
sheermal rich , royal creation is a spongy bread made of four , milk , ghee and saffron , and traditionally cooked in the iron tandoor .
these are activities which have brought haryana onto the international tourism map .
lapao cave is the largest quartzite cave in the americas , excellent for experienced rappellers .
construction of the palace complex began in 1407 , the 5th year of the yongle reign of the third emperor of the ming dynasty .
udaipur , the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green aravali range and crystal clear water lake .
ajmer is a centre of culture and education , the british chose it for its prestigious mayo college a school exclusively for indian nobility .
upstream of the krishna river is nagarjunakonda associated with the famous buddhist scholar of 2nd century , nagarjuna .
madras is also the fountainhead of the theosophical movement which spread worldwide .
museum of kerala history is one of the best looks into the history of kerala .
along the coastal plain and in much of the piedmont , summers are generally hot , and winters are mild .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
there are a few luxury hotels around the park that arrange their own elephant safaris and jeep rides .
the last of the plains indians were the focus of the popular movie dances with wolves , which was filmed in south dakota .
ferry services to ko phi phi are provided from this beach all year round .
arkansas 's native american population was peaking when the spanish explorer hernando de soto reached the state in 1541 .
a tour to sikkim would easily reveal that its biodiversity is rich with lots of delights on offer for wildlife and nature aficionados , alike .
in 1955 , rosa parks , a black seamstress , is arrested for refusing to give up her seat for a boarding white passenger as required by montgomery city ordinance .
of all the remarkable facts about the london eye , perhaps the most astonishing is that it was ever built at all .
the trek to rara lake begins at jumla , a village in a trans-himalayan valley with high rides covered with forests and alpine pastures .
a quadrangle within has tall ornate arches and a 61meter tower crested with domes .
the original american elevators by otis in the north and south piers took visitors up to the second floor in a double-decker cabin , using hydraulically powered cables .
a fiercely potent drink , feni is made either of cashew or coconut palm .
in addition , the island provides tourist facilities while ko lanta noi is the location of the district office .
botanical garden was laid out in 1847 by the marquis of tweedale and is spread over 55 acres .
to the south of the allahabads main railway station lie the mughal gardens known as khusrau bagh .
apart from its beautiful beaches and unique and varied ecosystems , the galapagos islands are home to towering active volcanoes .
the most exotic mansions or havelis , all intricately latticed , are stretched all over jaisalmer , each with a different facade .
after the power station closed down , a number of suggestions were put forward for its feature .
about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horseshoe .
the state of maharashtra is one of the largest in india .
if you looking for a slice of everyday naga life , head to the local bazaar that spring up regularly near the war cemetery .
the tharpa choeling gompa , which belongs to the yellow hat ( gelukpa ) sect of tibetan buddhism , is a 40 minute walk from town .
situated about 30 km from the city , the zoological park is spread over an area of 510 hectares .
also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , it is a marshy area , which was originally built as a hunting retreat of the kings of bharatpur .
its excellent workmanship and grand scale make it truly outstanding .
the central shrine at the dhathamandir faces the north-east and is constructed of a green limestone .
the initials correspond to the monogram of the once powerful dutch east india company , which had its office in cochin for almost 150 years .
singapore s geographical location is 136.8 km north of the equator , between latitudes 103 degrees 38 ' e and 104 degrees 06 ' e .
note that since the original market is now being rebuilt , the shops have been shifted to the children s park temporarily .
bangkok is now the country 's spiritual , cultural , diplomatic , commercial and educational hub .
the bridge over the firth of forth in scotland , opened in 1889 , achieved a record span of 521 meters .
roads link the neighboring states to agartala .
india is home to a rich diversity of wildlife .
visit rishikesh , explore the ancient town of haridwar and watch the ganga rush along , full of pride .
from the early period of its history , tribes like the koilis , halis , dagis , dhaugris , dasa , khasas , kinnars and kirats inhabited it .
opulent heritage palaces , quiet forests retreats , chic boutique hotels or trip on a luxury train maharashtra has it all .
a treaty was signed in 1868 , but whites broke it in 1876 , after gold was discovered on native american land in the black hills .
the war was fought not only between american and british forces , but also between citizens who became revolutionaries , the whigs , and those still swearing allegiance to the king , the tories .
the population soared , quickly ( and brutally ) overwhelming the californian and indians .
with minimalistic interious , it is well known for its rich moussaka , hummus served with delicious , unusual dips and the honey and fig ice cream .
jaipur is well connected to delhi , bombay , ahemadabad through regular flights of indian airlines .
the ultimate realization of emperor shahjahan s dreams one of the wonders of the world .
the wildlife parks and sanctuaries spread across the country , offer a fascinating diversity of terrain , flora and fauna .
ima keithal in imphal is the largest market in asia run by women .
silk and cotton are finely woven together to create gossamer fine chanderi ( named for a small town in the district of guna ) saris are another must buy .
the months from december to february are pretty cool .
apart from shopping you can also visit dense sambalpur forest , home to a wide variety of flora and fauna .
in ancient times , a statue of poseidon adorned the summit of the building .
sightseeing almora still retains elements of its past as a popular summer getaway for british experts working in india during the glory days of the british raj .
there are local buses but you may not want to risk these and for the rest , public transportation is really quite inadequate .
a section of the track is shaped like a w and the train has to move in changing directions .
if you have and interest in these artifacts and handlooms , you will find them all around .
as rich as its natural diversity , the state s past has handed on a legacy that comes in the form of both built and intangible heritage .
the golden temple sits on a rectangular platform in the centre of the amrit sarovar .
eco-tourism is consecrated for preserving and sustaining the diversity of the world 's natural and cultural environments .
climate ahmedabad has a very hot and humid climate with summer temperatures soaring up to 45 celsius .
the mountains can be reached by taking a 15-minute long tail boat ride from chao fa pier .
bhopali cuisine is at its best at shahnama and the new italian restaurant never disappoints .
with the intricate network of mountain rivers flowing through a myriad of different colors of rocky gorges , forests , flowers and high mountain villages , the garhwal and kumaon hills provide ideal locales for the perfect water adventure .
amaravati is a small rural village which is predominantly hindu and with a small population of muslims too .
you ll find excellent bengal cottons in adi dhakeswari vastralaya and rmca basak in gariahat in kolkata .
set amidst the hills the small and clean exquisite town of palampur is bejeweled with lush green terraced fields , the majestic deodar trees , beautiful tea gardens , pine forests the snow clad and breath taking dhauladhar range with its imposing sky high peaks .
adi shankaracharya , one of the greatest gurus of hindu spirituality established his ashram in kancheepuram which is 75 kms from chennai .
known as the mother river by all the chinese people , the 5464-kilometer ( about 3395 miles ) yellow river is the second longest river in china after the yangtze river .
it was built in honor of the greek goddess of hunting , wild nature , and fertility .
a few facts about the climate are that kerala does not have a dry spell as is in rest of india .
the island is connected to phang-nga province by sarasin bridge and thep krasattri bridge .
every time i am in orissa i spend time at the saree shops , as much for the joy of handling the sarees as buying them .
the palace is also the administrative headquarters of the monarchy .
this sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from jammu , india .
while the civil war was beginning far away to the east , cochise , geronimo , and mangas coloradas were attacking travelers and soldiers and raiding stagecoaches , ranches , and small settlements in the southwest and mexico .
wherever you 're going in the barbican , the best plan is to enter the centre by the nearest entrance .
legend says the mirror was also used to detect and burn enemy ships before they could reach the shore .
a memorial plaque at the entrance recounts the history of the jallianwala bagh massacre .
other architectural remains include that of agnigarh , bamuni hills , bhairavi and mahabhairab temples and the twin tanks of bar pukhuri and padum pukhuri .
hire a jeep from here and explore the more remote areas of the country .
as part of the alterations , marble arch , which was originally the entrance to the palace , was moved to a new position at the corner of hyde park .
the older parts of the city are famous for their admixture of indo saracenic architecture .
perhaps more than anywhere else , antarctica reminds those who visit it of the awesome ( and savage ) power of nature .
the age old art of dyes and colours hold the centre of attraction .
the aryans with their superior war tactics defeated the local tribes and settled here permanently .
lucknow s chowk area has lines of shops selling the most intricate of designs .
in the beautiful `` lake district `` of nainital , facilities of boating through yachts , paddleboats and traditional rowing bots are available .
today , this rose garden has the largest collection of roses in the country .
there is a circuit house for staying overnight at this secluded spot .
the jallianwala bagh , about 400 meters north of the golden temple , is a small stretch of plain ground now converted into a park .
alabama is sometimes called the heart of dixie because of its central location among the southern states .
the mogao caves are a depository of historical and cultural exchanges over more than a thousand years between china and other nations .
some estimates suggest that native americans had arrived in florida as early as 10 , 000 years before the first europeans .
covent garden is now home to numerous interesting shops and market stalls as well as a myriad of street entertainers who perform at every opportunity .
ulsoor lake is an ideal place for sightseeing , boating and shopping .
silvassa is about 10 km from bilhad on the mumbai ahmedabad highway .
in 1836 , michigan achieved statehood and iowa then became a part of wisconsin territory .
mentioned by the 7 th century chinese traveler hiuen tsang , this tree is considered sacred and devotees would jump from it to gain moksha ( salvation ) .
the fivestoreyed palace is one of the prominent buildings in the fort .
chennai presents a culture that is distinctly different from that of northern india .
one needs prior permission form the secretary to visit the palace .
the lal mata temple is an important tourist attraction in haridwar , india and is quite like the temple at vaishno devi in kashmir , india .
city getaways two hours by road from badami , aihole used to be the regional capital of the chalukyan kings between the 4th and 6th centuries ad .
the island fortress of haidar ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
the twin hills of lonavla and khandala are in the sahyadri ranges .
high plateaus and forested mountains are located to the west of the province , while there are low basins in the center and along the eastern coast .
the almost mystically beautiful scenery here provides an ideal setting for some of the state s oldest and most revered monasteries .
ajmer sharief is famous for the tomb of hazrat moinuddin chishti , the saint who founded the sufi order .
the best known is prasat hin phimai , just outside nakhon ratchasima , the largest sandstone sanctuary in thailand of classic khmer design .
the holy town chitrakoot is set in sylvan surroundings on the banks of the river mandakini , also known as the payaswaini river .
located on the west bank of the rankala lake , hotel shalini palace is the only heritage hotel in the whole of maharashtra .
musicians and dancers decked out in fibre masks , plaited straw , and fantastic , feather helmets were retelling the legends of the flood and the creation .
other major rivers in the area ubon are the chee river , moon river , lum saybok river , lum domeyai river and lum domenoi river .
besides the sea , sand and the sun , a typical kerala village with paddy fields and coconut groves nearby completes the idyllic picture that the beach paints .
jaipur is color washed pink to welcome prince albert , the consort of queen victoria of england who visited india in 1883 a.d. .
royally furnished , with colonial touch , the 29 are airy and spacious , and most afford the great views of the river .
fairy meadows the last mountain wilderness of the himalayas , lying under the shadow of nanga parbat ( 8 , 126 m ) , waiting for you to explore by helicopter .
the best shops for pedas are opposite the shri krishna janambhoomi temple in mathura .
the industrial units , some 1700 of them in and around agra , have been in the eye of a storm in recent times .
india travel destinations includes among its itinerary , top draws of the order of cochin and munnar .
the colonnade supported a pyramid roof which was in turn decorated with statues .
raed by conde nast traveller as one of the top 10 restaurants in the world , the spice route offers superb food in a truly inspired setting .
india tourism has a system of approving travel agents / tour operators who conform to prescribed standards of service and quality .
there are quite a few temples in jammu and kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the raghunath temples , kheer bhawani temple , sudh mahadev temple , vaishno devi , amarnath and the shankaracharya temple .
during india s freedom struggle , amritsar became the scene of one of the worst atrocities perpetrated by the british .
the temple dedicated to 14 gods and goddesses , temple , church and the with burmese statues of the buddha are the other places worth a visit .
a jamini roy collection and desmond doig 's pen and ink sketches of calcutta 's nostalgic landmark are also on view .
the sport of white water river rafting calls for a triumph over the swift swirling river as it gushes past spectacular mountains .
the statue was so high that visitors described the throne more than zeus body and features .
the best season to visit chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary , 30-hectare park is between november and february .
around the parikrama , or pathway , are four rectangular cubicles where granthis ( priests ) sit and recite the granth sahib .
it features collections of 19th century oil paintings , sculptures in stone and plaster-of-paris , old coins and items of the cochin royal family .
the later apache wars against the united states ended in 1886 with the surrender of geronimo .
it is worth taking a trip along its waters before exploring further into different canals to take a glimpse of old bangkok .
the population is about 30.7 million ( based on census in 2002 ) or about 896 persons per square kilometer with living as farmer , trader , and official government .
madan kamdev is an archaeological site where erotic sculptures and other stone carvings abound .
palampur has a quite a reasonable accommodation and is well connected by rail , road and air .
unfortunately , indoors climbing is not found in india but in western countries .
once a portuguese princess ' dowry and later an adornment of neo-gothic british architecture , mumbai today , is more than just a metropolis .
the fort was the site of the military activity during the mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the british .
sightseeing in the agartala stands on the banks of a small lake surrounded by huge mughal gardens .
however , though the english legacy is undeniable , chennai has continued to be a centre which has blended the foreign influence with the traditional tamil-hindu culture .
the goodies come in a wicker basket , and include mouth-watering jalebis , cakes , sweet buns , and sweets made of pounded rice .
history is alive and throbbing in delhi , the capital of india .
the ancient city of ephesus near the modern town of selcuk , about 50 km south of izmir ( smyrna ) in turkey .
it was later in 1303 and in 1323 that two stronger earthquakes left a significant impression on the structure .
eastern kansas was occupied by the osage , pawnee , kansa , and wichita indians , western kansas by the arapaho , cheyenne , commanche , and kiowa .
the power station 's other claim to fame is that it appeared on the front cover of the pink floyd album `` animals `` with a pig flying overhead .
the chitsabha inside the temple is an interesting piece of architecture .
an ethereal quality full of lightness and grace .
the temperatures are moderate and several festivals coincide with this period .
two weeks in chiang mai may not be long enough for serious travelers .
the most attractive feature of this temple is the statue of lord buddha in a reclining position .
its first effects became apparent the following year , when military forces retook part of the former ' liberated zone .
one can feel the adrenaline level rising as one negotiates the challenges of the steep gradients and traverses unimaginable distances .
the beaver state , webfoot state , oregon 's name is a mystery .
narrow alleys and local bazaars surround the area around the temple .
the annual urs of khwaja moinuddin chisti is held in the month of may and is one of the most visited festivals in india .
chatori gali famous for biryani and kebabs near ibrahimpura is the best bet but there s a lone stall in budhwara with the most melt-in-mouth seekh kebabs .
other than its renowned embroidery , kutch is also specializes in block printing with vegetable dyes .
the best place to watch odissi is puri and konark , which come alive with annual dance festival .
the ' creoles ' are descended from the french , some spanish , and even some german settlers who came to the colony in the 18th century .
mysore is a major craft centre with numerous shops selling an incredible range of ivory , sandalwood , rosewood and teak carvings and furniture .
good ones include p thema , jona pani and medziphera .
shakespeare , hogarth , lenin and pepys have all had associations with clerkenwell and some of the old trades such as printing and clock making still survive .
the gaiety ands fervour of the festivel drives home the messege of unity , cutting across the barriers of caste , color and religion .
by train kumarghat , 140 km away , is the nearest rail station .
the followers dug into the rocks and carved out nearly 30 marvelous temples and dwelling hills over a period of more than 600 years .
grishneshwar mandir , rani ahilyabai holkar is said to have built this shiva temple in the 18th century in small village of grishneshwar , which lies west of the caves .
certain climbs can often prove grueling and tough , but the magic of the beautiful landscape , the cool weather and pure air keeps the climber 's spirit up .
the island itself is generally rugged and mountainous with gravelly and sandy beaches to the south .
laat bhairava is an image of bhairava carved on a pillar that is encased in copper and is covered with vermilion .
jakarta is a special territory enjoying the status of a province , consisting of greater jakarta , covering of 637.44 square km area .
the 1st europeans where louis-joseph and francois verendrye who explored the area in 1743 while searching for a route to the pacific .
it has been declared a world heritage site by unesco .
changing money anywhere but at accredited bureau is illegal .
jaipur , popularly known as the pink city , is the capital of rajasthan state , india .
if brilliant colors and mirror work appeals to you , then the bright red and yellows of banni embroidery is what you should go for .
after oil was struck on this land , the osage became the wealthiest people per capita in the united states .
the challenge of the turbulent rivers is no less than that of the rigged mountains .
one of the largest mosques in the world , the mecca masjid is said to accommodate upto 10 , 000 worshippers .
the glass house built on the lines of the crystal palace in london is the main attraction in this huge park .
at the city 's stock exchange , millionaires and paupers are made overnight and the sidewalks are crowded with vendors hawking everything from ballpoint pens to second hand mixies .
the core area called the `` island city `` has the most expensive real estate in all of india .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
from 1861-1865 ( civil war ) alabama saw 194 military land events and 8 naval engagements .
you can see the taj mahal from everywhere in the hotel oberoi amarvilas .
this festival held to commemorate the historical importance of the qutub minar , the festival showcases the best of indian music , dance and yes , food .
an exciting sport is elephant polo which provides a spectacle for the audience and enjoyment to the participants .
bidriware uses black gunmetal etched with islamic designs in gold to create boxes , hookahs , samovars , wine jars and glasses ; jewellery and mementoes made of agate , amethysts and crystal found locally is another of the crafts aurangabad is famous for .
india was once a collection of princely kingdoms mysore palace where feudal traditions still carry on amidst forts and palace hotels .
this huge temple is an interesting tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to kolkata , india .
the temple complex is surrounded by a fortified wall with eighteen gates .
standing testimony is the 17th century sea-side thellicherry fort built by the british , its ramparts still massive and seemingly impermeable .
you can choose between either the regular or valley view suites with verandahs in any one of three bungalows here .
the varaha temple houses an image of lord vishnu in the incarnation of a wild boar who came on earth to kill the demon hirnayaksh .
indian motor racing is roughly 50 years old and rallying 30 years .
its tower clock was once returned to england to be repaired under its lifetime guarantee , which up to now has already lasted hundreds of years .
during the war , indians who tried to remain neutral were attacked by confederate forces .
this is supposed to be the second longest beach in the world and runs to a length of 12 km .
some of the most popular temples in tamil nadu , india are : chidambaram , sri parthasarathy temple , kapaleeswarar temple , rameswaram , palaniandavar temple , kumari amman temple and the swamimalai .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
the province of ubon covers 15 , 517 square kilometers and is divided into the 25 districts .
chamba is one of the oldest princely states and dates back its origin to 6th century ad .
in the month of ramzan the tomb celebrates urs , when groups of kawwali singers perform devotional sufi songs at the tomb .
the mehfil khana or the main hall of the dargah is the place where qawwalis are sung throughout the year .
in addition to natural attractions , a large number of human skeletons have been found in khao khanap nam .
the resort , which consists of luxurious log hunts on stilts and tented cottages , has a forest as a backdrop .
most of them live on reservations such as rosebud , pine ridge , cheyenne river , and standing rock .
east java is located on the eastern part of java island and also includes madura and bawean islands .
these durries come in vibrant colours and bold geometric patters that can add cheer to any space instantly .
outside the museum is a botanical garden with exotic tropical trees .
it is possible to visit both these historical sites on a one day outing if you leave badami early enough in the morning .
the museum is open to the public from 10 : 30 am till 04 : 30 pm on all days except monday .
according to legend the hindu deity lord shiva narrated the secret of creation to goddess parvati inside this cave .
the fort also has miran saheb ki dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter .
this parsi family home specializes in the now rare gara saris , which were once worn extensively during parsi ceremonies and festivals .
the palace has sloping walls that give the impression as though they are swaying in the wind , huge and heavy stone arches support the ceiling inside the fort .
atop a granite hill , golconda has every reason to be proud it defied the mighty mughals for eight months before intrigue and betrayal led to its fall .
in the late 18th century , the town was plundered by ahmad shah durrani , to be rebuilt by the first sikh ruler of punjab , maharaja ranjit singh .
young horses are bought and reared in the hills .
mewar festival is one of the important festival of udaipur and held every year in the month of april .
the indian population was made up of several groups-primarily , the creek and the miccosukee people ; and many african american refugees lived with the indians .
this is when the dargah resonates with the uplifting strains of sufi music and the tabarukh , a sweet rice preparation that is sacred , is doled out all visitors .
at kaarigar haat you ll bump into artisans selling their creations , while meena bazaar gives you a feel of a real old village .
the island offers a wide selection of handicrafts made from wood , fiber and sea shells .
president 's house , this palace like building was build by the british with a blend of mughal and western culture .
from the sparkling , serene sands at ganpatipule and ratangiri to the little hamlets of chiplun .
according to legend the hindu deity lord shiva narrated the secret of creation to goddess parvati inside this cave .
to visit the fort , you will need to get permission from the commandant at the ordnance depot inside .
jakarta 's architecture reflects to a large extent the influx of outside influences , which came and has remained in this vital seaport city .
the landscape combines the raucous vivacity , the exquisite scenery the creaking ox carts and innocent tribal looks that will greet one everywhere .
these excavations together with detailed descriptions by ancient historians give us a fairly good idea about the shape and appearance of the mausoleum .
chiang mai s mountains create a multitude of streams and tributaries including mae chaem , mae ngat and mae klang .
when you are roaring around the bays , it s easy to forget that you re in the full force of the sun , so protect yourself beforehand .
the best way to watch the birds of the kumarakom sanctuary is a boat trip round the islands .
routes should be carefully chosen , as some treks may be more difficult , or may involve high altitude trekking .
the good restaurants are all in the newer city areas to the north of the station .
also try shikanji , the special thick creamy malwa milk drink flavored with almonds .
as i am , resident from chennai at south of india , i would like to elaborate its culture and business environment .
two princes-pho khun pha muang and pho khun bang klang hao combined their forces and fought the khmers who commanded an extensive empire throughout this part of the world .
khorat is most well known for silk weaving ( in pak thong chai ) and a variety of top-notch quality handicrafts such as clay pottery products of dan kwian .
after a day or two of revisiting history , head to diu for a relax beach break .
extending in a linear arrangement , the 34 caves contain buddhist chaityas , or halls of worship , and viharas , or monasteries , hindu and jain temples .
then , a tour to sikkim would reveal the presence of the graceful impeyan pheasant with its ecstatic and loud , electric blue plumage and none of them is lovelier .
big ben is not open to the public .
most of the inexpensive budget accommodation is in taj ganj .
holiday packages on the houseboats , traditional kettuvalloms , an out-of-this-world experience at kumarakom .
the best time to buy these is winter , when kolkata s calendar is packed with handloom and handicrafts expo .
there are many attractions available in the sirmaur .
be sure you 're equipped with all the information you need and head straight for the sights .
the third one was designed by john rennie and built in 1832 by his son , after his death .
ganjam offers everything from traditional old jewellary of the royalty of yesteryear to the finest contemporary collections .
it developed into an important cantonment for the british troops stationed in the plains of north india .
lekkar bazaar is another chief draw for honeymooners in india with its wooden souvenirs and gift items specific to himachal pradesh .
apart from visiting waterfalls , adventurous visitors can trek to the peak of the phanom bencha mountain , which is 1 , 397 meters high .
king rama iv decided to move tha thong city to ban don and required that it report directly to bangkoks administration .
the best choices for lunch are the jower roti and the raagi mudde ( raagi ball ) meals , unique to the southern districts .
it may have simple decor , but you ll find the best tibetan food in town at kunga .
the earliest reference to delhi as a settlement is made in the hindu epic , mahabharata , which states that the pandavas founded a city called indraprastha .
after his death , it is mostly the weak rulers except his grand son jayatida , who ruled the valley .
today , thousands of mexicans contribute to the seasonal migrant labor hired to gather and pack crops .
kewzing village homestay , immerse yourself in local culture at kewzing , a timeless bhutia village that rests against a backdrop of magnificent mountains .
since it is mainly a religious and trading town there are not many largescale industrial units here .
the tribal museum at silvassa circle , which offers an amazing insight into the life of the groups living in dadra & nagar haveli .
until the war of 1982 , the rainy , windswept falkland islands were a forgotten remnant of the old british empire .
photography is also strictly forbidden and cameras can not even be taken inside .
it is believed that khwaja saheb had a vision of ajmer in a dream while in madina , and he also received the spiritual inspiration to come here .
phagli is also a predominantly agricultural festival and has its own folk traditions .
mandrain , the chienese restaruant , has been testing the tateduds of innumerable guests for the last 25 years .
i love the wonderfully fragrant mysore sandal soaps from mysore and old fascinating games like chausar and chaukobara from the crafts council of karnataka .
the canals and waterworks within the charbagh provide a grand reflection of the taj , further emphasizing the imagery of the paradise .
even once known , antarctica seemed inhospitable and incomprehensible and , in many ways , it still is .
places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include gulmarg in jammu and kashmir , auli in grawhal , kufri and narkanda in himachal pradesh .
for the white water rafting enthusiast , the early stages of the ganga offer the exhilarating alakananda and bhagirathi rivers .
the highest elevation is white butte in slope county at 3 , 506 feet while the lowest elevation is the red river in pembina county at 750 feet .
the overland party crossed through teton pass in 1811 en route to found astoria , oregon .
udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty , one of the famous city of rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts .
france and spain both owned the area , though neither established a strong presence .
finish your meal with a hot cappuccino and a mouthwatering pastry from the restaurant s selection of sweet treats .
lone star state , texas was named from the caddo indian word teysha , or tejas , which means `` hello friend .
they are fairly comfortable but it is advisable to carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers especially if you are looking at budget accommodation .
in fact mumbai is the very soul of human enterprise .
the rooms are simple but clean and cosy , and the meals , served in the family kitchen , are tasty and wholesome .
over the last few decades , thailand 's capital city , bangkok , has changed into a modern , exciting and sophisticated city .
one can see mud plastered houses with thached roofs , and spotted palias or totems depicting deities and heroes near their villages .
the river bhaga originates from bhaga glaciers glacier .
first explored for spain by hernando de soto , who discovered the mississippi river in 1540 , the region was later claimed by france .
cozy nook in palolem does a good job of living up to its name .
a journey through the hill resorts hills in arunachal pradesh of india promises a deep and refreshing communion with nature in its varying beauty .
the 10 day dussehra festival is one of the major attractions , culminating in the long procession of caparisoned elephants , liveried retainers , and cavalry .
other must buys include luscious pineapples , orange and black mushrooms .
green mansions is a place to embrass nature to trek , go for night safaries , bird watch , or canoe in the lake.camping is also an option .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity vishveswara shiva .
the other version is that shiva ( the hindu god of destruction ) along with a crore of gods and goddesses were on a pilgrimage .
silchar railway station is well connected to mizoram along national highway 54 by buses and hired taxis .
following a major rebuild of the interior , the building reopened in 1997 renamed the international financial centre .
on a weekend , the majority of ancient streets ( which include part of the roman watling street ) are empty and silent .
now a national memorial and the best-known tourist spot in andamans , the cellular jail was once a house of horrors .
prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in brahmanical ( vedic ) and buddhist literatures .
the 18th century bharatpur bird sanctuary , which is also known as the keoladeo ghana national park .
arguably the best japanese restaurant in delhi , sakura is the next best thing to dining in tokyo .
most of the temples located in the state of tamil nadu are dedicated to the hindu deities lord vishnu and lord shiva .
culture of the wall , unfolding a considerable part of chinese culture beyond the wall .
in addition , the presence of hill tribes and their wealth of unique cultures enhance chiang mai 's distinctive diversity .
to get the vital region in american hands , president thomas jefferson negotiated the louisiana purchase with napoleon .
it is one of the most spectacular and popular attractions in the world , drawing visitors from far and wide .
the heights of this quaint hill station in india are gifted with moist deciduous , wet evergreen forests , and grassy knolls .
mu ko hong is located at the edge of the than bok khorani national park , and is accessible by a 1-hour boat trip from ao nang .
in the big cities expect thorough professionalism when dealing with private companies and high ranking bureaucracy .
give in to its allure , and have an enchanted stay .
from here you can pick up unusual bedcovers , table linen , saris and dupattas in the traditional black and red or earthy colors with eye-catching geometric and floral motifs .
national parks & monuments include big bend , big thicket , guadalupe mountains , alibates flint quarries .
along with the modern day pubs , discos and hangouts , one can still see remnants of the older bangalore .
to the northeast of the railway station is the with a museum housed in the palace built by maharaja ranjit singh .
ajanta finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
tour to chail dharamshala , at an altitude of 4000 m above sea level , it is located on spur of dhaulandhar range .
the 18th century bharatpur bird sancttuary , which is also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , is famous as the most important bird breeding and feeding habitat of the world .
spain claimed and occupied california in the interest of increasing spanish and catholic influence .
a history of more than 2000 years , some of the section of the great wall are now in ruins or even entirely disappeared .
there is also an old lighthouse which is greatly fascinating to visitors .
with the advent of the american revolution , british-inspired indian attacks continually plagued these pioneer settlements .
a massive structure in the shape of a four sided fort with circular bastions at each corner houses a temple of hanuman and is the most popular shrine in ayodhya .
it rose to prominence once again with the establishment of the textile industry and as gandhi s base for the nationalist movement for indian independence .
the old city of chiang mai with its fascinating indigenous cultural identity such as diverse dialects , cuisine , architecture , traditional values , festivals , handicrafts and classical dances is a prime location in its own right .
a herbal menu is served at the farm in support of the ayurveda therapy options offered in satya health farm , to cleanse the system of toxins .
a fantastic and unforgettable spectacle is the passage of the highway along the baltura glacier , rated among the worlds seventh largest .
the amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces , halls , stairways , pillared pavilions , gardens & temples .
it has one of the most important hindu temples in the world and yet urdu is as widely spoken and appreciated as the more indigenous telugu .
gilgit s most prominent contribution to the area seems to be the gilgiti cap worn throughout most of northern pakistan .
the courtyard of the alamgir dargah ( shrine ) is also the burial spot of the last great mughal emperor , aurangzeb .
on the ancient island of pharos , now a promontory within the city of alexandria in egypt .
hope renewed by a new `` ghost dance `` religion was dashed with sitting bull 's death in 1890 and the subsequent wounded knee massacre .
it is believed that the great seer and philosopher , shankaracharya stayed here during his visit to srinagar in kashmir , india for the spread of the sanatan dharma .
the counterbalancing cabin was latched onto a set of cables linking to the master cabin over the top sheaves .
suitable in all weather as the boat has both covered and sun deck seating .
cochin is now also an international gateway served by a few international airlines .
india travel destinations includes the tracks of motorcycle safari in india like ladakh , leh and foothills of himalayas .
it is illegal to export objects over 100 years old ( sacred images , paintings , manuscripts ) that are valued for culture and religious reasons .
featuring the pagoda of phra boromathat chaiya , the seal is proof of the influence of mahayana buddhist on surat thani .
the camino real became a major trade route between parts of new mexico and mexico , introducing new foods and other cultural attributes to the area .
most geologists believe that the area known as phuket today was once a cape that extended into the andaman sea .
germans , swedes , and other groups from western europe were important components of the early settlement of kansas .
the best quality , without a doubt , is available at morena gajak bhandar in the naya sadak bazaar .
king ramkhamhaeng also promoted religion and culture , and through his efforts , buddhism progressed among the people .
payments have to be made using an electronic smartcard called the autopass card .
the restaurant upstairs is famed for its delicious tandoori fare , while the buzz in the basement holds jam sessions .
although the farm is only 2 bazaars , you will not know it relaxing under himalayn alders and magnolia trees .
the temperatures in the area are extreme and there is large difference between lowest and highest temperatures during a day and monsoons do not penetrate this area .
the shaking minarets were damaged in the earthquake , but efforts are on to restore as much as is possible .
ko hai is small island has a long sandy beach in the east and unspoiled shallow water coral reefs at the beachfront .
the theatre royal on drury lane is an immense edifice and has the largest theatre auditorium in london .
you could arrange fun day trips or get away on a weekend .
there are tours running from the golden temple complex covering around amritsar , including those at gobindwala , tarn taran , baba bikala , buddha sahib , khadoor sahib , damdama sahib and chheharta .
his reign witnessed a period of peace and consolidation and prosperity .
the haat sees a constant flux of indian handicrafts and artifacts every 15 days .
the assimilation of different styles has given the buildings within the fort a distinctive look .
the chamundeswari temple s tower is 40m high with seven storeys .
fulham broadway has become something of a haunt for people wanting a lively night out .
sualkuchi place is famous for producing golden silken thread .
a thick cloud of tar and coal smoke seized the throat , and we were deafened by the din of metal screaming beneath the hammer .
jodhpur is one of the most famous tourist places in rajasthan .
there are four stone temples in total that reflect the north indian rekha architectural style .
when whites violated an 1868 treaty by invading the sacred black hills in search of gold , war broke out .
nearby is a mosque with persian inscriptions and the tomb of amanat khan .
palace kawardha , set against scenic paddy fields and the maikal foothills , and surrounded by beautiful lawns , the italian marble-and-stone palace boasts grand staircase , large high-ceilinged rooms , and sweeping verandahs .
so whether you want to mingle with kings and queens or the latest pop stars , this is the place to go .
between 1900 and 1920 , a large number of basque immigrants came to idaho from the pyrenees to work as sheepherders .
the hanuman temple at the top of jakhu hill is the highest point in shimla .
one of the legacies left behind by the british much like cricket and hockey is polo .
the burial chamber and the sarcophagus of white alabaster decorated with gold were located on the podium and surrounded by ionic columns .
munnar being one of them needs to be rediscovered by nature lovers and seekers of freshest of natural flavors .
the structure was gradually erected as the bronze form was fortified with an iron and stone framework .
since 1912 , the mysore silk has grown from being a local craft to a global brand , known for its special luster and fine texture .
it was he , who recovered kashmir from utter political and economic disorder .
these powers were gradually relaxed during the 1980s .
the durtlang hills , south of aizawl , are high ridges punctuated by small villages and christian convents .
for centuries , the silk route remained the main trading route between the south asia and the central asia .
nakki lake , is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills , beautiful parks and is a must visit place .
until now greenwich 's main claim to fame has been that the world sets its clocks by their time .
the dargah of sayeed burhanuddin is believed to be a repository of hair from the prophets beard , which increases in numbers over a period of time .
whenever there is talk of mughal cuisine , zarda always finds a mention .
the chief place of worship in ayodhya is the site of the ancient citadel of ramkot which stands on an elevated ground in the western part of the city .
come to bandhej for both traditional and fusion fashion all consistently understated and elegant .
the beaches of goa and kerala also offer other sporting opportunities like water skiing , wind surfing and sailing .
khajuraho as a key and attractive honeymoon destination in india is visual delight as far as the honeymooners in india are concerned .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar minaret stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
and the night sky is lit up with the twinkling of a myriad tiny paper lamps sent up on special kites .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to this marvelously natural and neanderthal hill station in india .
it was moved to its present position in 1867 when the holborn viaduct was built .
national parks & monuments in south carolina include congaree swamp , fort moultrie , and fort sumter .
together , daman , diu and dadra & nagar haveli can be compared with the best that india has to offer .
both places have dining and boarding facilities for overnight stops .
the gleaming white domes , pillars and archways resemble the architectural pattern of mysore 's old palaces .
in bomdila tawang and the nearby buddhist monastery , which is the largest in india are places worth a visit .
motorcycle safari in india not only enlists the speeding part of the machine but also the patience and balancing part of this facet of adventure tourism in india .
one of the oldest hotels in daman , miramar has lovely rooms featuring balconies that seamlessly blend the equally charming outdoors and indoors .
fortunately for the world , the game polo survived in a few remote mountainous enclaves of the subcontinent , notably gilgit , chitral , ladakh and manipur .
kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the durpin dara monastery .
agra is well connected by air with khajuraho , varanasi , and delhi .
the illinois country became a possession of virginia until 1787 when it joined the northwest territory under the government of the united states .
renowned artists are invited to come and perform in a night-long gala , open to the public .
in chicago in the united states , steel started to be employed to erect buildings of enormous height .
situated on the outskirts of the city , foy sagar , a picturesque lake is named after the engineer responsible for it construction .
the multicoloured patterns and motifs of this fabric are drawn from nature and can lure even the most jaded shopper int9o a buying spree .
the sky is a brilliant blue and the morning mists envelope the valleys between the hills presenting a visual treat .
the verandah in forest , restored by aman nath to its original splendour , is wonderful .
built by the british , connaught place is quite close to the new delhi railway station and a unique shopping spot .
corbett national park is rightfully named after the man who was instrumental in its creation .
the lower himalayan valleys of swat , kaghan and chitral in the hindukush range equally share the beauty and diverse culture of the northern pakistan .
vishakapatnam , which derives its name from vishka , the god of valor , is situated along the east coast on the bay of bengal .
nearest underground stop is hammersmith .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
during your tours to historical monuments in mandu , india you can also visit the champa baodi that has a huge complex that has a complicated water system .
bangalore has some beautiful temples .
it tapers to a single room at the top , and is supported by columns with various designs .
this historic khanqah is a wooden building and is adorned with bells and carvings .
all festivals are jointly organised by the department of tourism , government of tamil nadu and ministry of tourism , government of india .
right from the beginning the popular success of the tower manifested itself in a multitude of varying forms : miniature models , bottles and candles , bracelet charms and watches , paper cutters and lamp stands .
barnes has been described as a place populated by country folk who ca n't quite let go of london .
brazil 's painters , sculptors , engravers and lithographers show their works both within brazil and in museums and galleries throughout the world .
another motorcycle safari in india , which also includes shangri la in its tour itinerary , is yet another part of the adventure tourism exercise in india .
the paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of the buddha and various buddhist divinities .
there s bonus of discovering the tiny tribal villages around silvassa .
it was not long before the strategic location of the islands attracted the covetous eyes of the portuguese , who took control of diu in 1535 .
iowa is named for a native american tribe and is nicknamed for chief black hawk .
mumbai is also the country 's financial powerhouse , the nation 's industrial heartland , and its economic nerve centre .
the staff of tourist village , shivpuri is friendly , the service is efficient and the meal is surprisingly good .
the area covering regent 's park was formerly a church property called manor of tyburn .
the number of hispanics grew by nearly 70 percent and the group now accounts for 12.3 percent of the state 's population .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
the apaches revolted against the spanish in 1676 , the pueblo in 1680 .
the revenue produced from tourism helps and encourages governments to fund conservation projects and training programs .
13 km away from aurangabad lays one of the country 's most impressive and majestic forts daulatabad , commanding the view from atop a pyramid-shaped hilltop .
the most famous of these is the kangla fort in imphal , which contains the remains of bir tikendrajit , manipur s most celebrated martyr .
these include fragment of statues and many slabs of the frieze showing the battle between the greeks and the amazons .
the adhai din ka jhonpara mosque and taragarh fort are interesting historical monuments .
on december 7 , 1887 , the joining of the major girders up to the first level was completed .
nearby are the durga bari and laxmi narayan bari temples , where the royals still celebrate durga puja with great fervour .
the total height of the building including the foundation base was about 117 m ( 384 ft ) , equivalent to a 40-story modern building .
the entrance to the main courtyard of the sugandhesa temple is right in the middle of the eastern wall of this temple 's peristyle that has two chambers .
however , some summers this area too gets unbearably dry and during these times the animals migrate to neighboring wetter mudumalai park .
big sky country , bonanza state and treasure state , montana is a latinized spanish word meaning `` mountainous `` .
hinduism and buddhism constitute two major religions of nepal .
sam sand dunes is one of the best nature 's gift to the human beings .
the tower very soon became a favorite subject for painters , and contemporary artists continue to use it as their model .
its rich wild life reserves also make it a prominent hill station in india .
indian airlines has regular flights to port blair , from calcutta and chennai .
brazilian culture is more than the simple result of specific contributions by europeans , africans and indians .
most outlets ( especially on the king 's road ) tend to be small , with smart fashionable bars and restaurants jostling for space in between .
the indigenous builders of the taj mahal fully understood the deceptive nature of the human eye .
more significantly , patna is a gateway to the budhist and jain pilgrim centers of vaishali , rajgir , nalanda , bodhgaya and pawapuri .
bangalore was founded by kempe gowda in the early 16th century .
you can also see ashes from roman london , which was burnt down in ad 61 by boudicca .
designed by lt samuel russel , the british residency of hyderabad was built in 1806 and is one of the best examples of european architecture in india .
government guesthouse at drass lies in the middle of the most beautiful and unspoilt highland pasture .
the present name of muzaffarabad has been given to it after the name of sultan muzaffar khan , a chief of bomba dynasty ( 1652 ) .
offering cooking demonstration and tasting classes to actual hands-on cooking classes , at-sunrice showcases the richness of asian cuisine through hands-on education , exposure and enjoyment .
i think the heritage site at hampi , pattadakal , belur , halebid and many others rival the beauty of taj mahal .
the nrityagram celebrates the vasantha habba ( the spring ) every year .
chapada diamantina earns its place on the list of ecotourism musts in brazil , as it holds numerous natural records and monuments .
the most popular shrine at mathura is the dwarikadhish temple to the north of the town , dedicated to shri krishna .
the 1st european was spanish explorer francisco coronado who almost certainly crossed what is now oklahoma in 1541 during his search for the `` lost city of gold .
chakem is more popular in the hilly regions .
stock up on plenty of the sweet stuff ( honey ) before checking the nearby spices markets for cardamom and pepper .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
a variety of kebab and innovative vegetarian dishes spice up the menu .
there are hotels , motels , tourist guesthouses and an mtdc resort .
presently man mahal is covered to rtdc sarvour tourist bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers .
fur hats were fashionable at that time , in northeastern cities , and oregon 's streams were an important source of beaver .
dont miss the ornate virupaksha temple , the mallikarjuna temple and the papanath temple .
ajmer remains the centre of many quality public schools in india to this day .
ooty still woos people from all over india as well as foreign countries right through summer , and sometimes in the winter months too .
ko talabeng is a limestone island similar to ko phi phi le with numerous small and attractive beaches and caves that are clearly visible during low tide .
in addition , accommodations ranging from world-class resorts to tropical-style bungalows have warmly catered to the different needs of travelers .
there are plenty of middle of the road restaurants and cafes in ajmer that serve an eclectic mix of cuisines at modest prices in modest surroundings .
pick up a miniature taj mahal for a bit of kitsch or buy some marble trinket boxes as gifts .
the kaw indians were removed from their reservation in morris county to oklahoma territory in 1874 , thus opening this land for white settlement .
the unique characteristic of india is its unity in diversity although there are many cultures and religions and languages .
the bangalore aquarium is the second largest in the country .
in guajrat uttarayan is celebrated in the middle od january , and signifies the end of winter and comimg of spring .
the rtdc offices help with information , guides and paying guest accommodation .
delhi is the capital city and one of the largest cities in india .
if you leave out the milk and cream from sheerchai , it is called nunchi ( salty tea .
the thick growth of deodars , pine and red and pink rhododendrons can be seen all around the hill station .
the boating facility attracts native as well as foreign tourists here in mount abu .
a large number of people , many from outside the region have thus made the city their permanent home .
at the week of modern art held in sao paulo in 1922 , artists discussed their dissatisfactions with the academic world in all fields of the brazilian arts .
shawls are speciality of himachal pradesh .
on the other hand , the area to the south of the island ( phuket city today ) was developed and became a tin trading center .
you can t go to varanasi and not have the paan here .
the battle of the little bighorn , probably the most famous battle of all of north america 's `` indian wars , `` was fought in southeastern montana in 1876 .
except maharastra no other coasting india offers you such a vast choice of majestic ports like khanderi , undheri , malvani , goa , murud , sindhudurg and suvarnadurg .
the skin is cleaned and roasted over a fire , then immediately soaked in water , rinsed and cooked till tender .
the washita massacre was the last major confrontation between whites and indians in oklahoma .
hindu and buddhist temples , shrines , monasteris and religious sacred places along the trekking routes enable to give more than insight into the spiritual life and history of nepal and will remain a memorable experience in life .
the curvature of the uprights is mathematically determined to offer the most efficient wind resistance possible .
brazil is south america 's biggest and most influential country and takes up almost half the continent .
they are a treasure trove of surprises and can be more fun exploring than the city 's fancier establishments .
under aurangzeb , aurangabad became the seat of the powerful mughal empire for a short while .
banking in punjab is becoming easier .
the pomfret masala and the spicy prawns are especially mouthwatering .
when it comes to bright and festive , bagh embroidery is a close second to punjab s famous phulkari embroidery .
a cheaper mode of travel in the city would be a cycle rickshaw .
in bangalore , mtr may be the best known dosa place , but many refer vidyarthi bhawan .
the architectural style of this ancient temple is an example of the oriyan style of architecture .
arunachal pradesh is a dreamy , misty land nestled in the middle of ancient tribal lands and cultures .
nepal time is 5 hours 45 minutes ahead of gmt and 15 minutes ahead of indian standard time .
a welcome heritage hotel , winamere is situated on historic observatory hill in darjeeling .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
oklahoma territory and indian territory were united under america on november 16 , 1907 .
you must try dara , the local fish made in fiery curry and tari , an effective palm wine while you are in daman .
splendidly chic boutiques , exquisite antiques shops and hundreds of charming eighteenth and nineteenth century houses make chelsea one of the most desirable areas in london .
kanchenjunga might reveal herself from under a veil of clouds .
ajanta unfinished caves are unfinished monasteries of the second phase of excavation .
domestic tourists require an inner line permit to travel to mizoram , which can be obtained from the mizo liaison officer at delhi , calcutta , guwahati or shillong .
a slightly different version is the talapatrachitra , or palm leaf engravings .
situated on the banks of the ganga , bithoor is of considerable historical and religious importance .
the haat , is an ambitious and highly successful project by delhi tourism .
the rabindra gallery contains paintings and manuscripts of the great man of letters .
on the eve of the lossar festival , the stylished chhaam dance , often called the devil dance , is performed .
jaipur is 260 km from delhi and 240 km from agra and forms the most chosen tourism golden triangle of delhi , agra and jaipur .
the jal mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties .
other festivities are also visual feasts for the admiring travelers with a yen for folklore , details and legend .
many trekkers walk in from the roadhead at jiri , through the lovely rolling hills of the solu region .
the deity is a massive 15-foot basava or bull , which was believed to have been the vehicle of lord shiva .
the urs or annual pilgrimage of the devout is celebrated each may at the dargah with millions of pilgrims arriving in ajmer to pay homage .
the palace complex was completed fourteen years later in 1420 .
the region was ruled by spain until mexico won its independence in 1821 and then mexico ruled it until 1848 .
his court was a centre of luxury and splendor .
a small museum displays photographs and other antiques of the britishers , relevant to these islands .
most famous is ao phang-nga national park , a geological wonder filled with islets , sunken caverns and startling rock formations rising sheer out of the sea .
august is high season in canoa quebrada , when the town quickly fills up with european tourists .
not forget the heavenly malai ka paan in lucknow .
the vibrant and fun filled marwar festival is held annually and is a celebration that brings to life the essence of all that rajasthan stands for .
india travel destinations , the tour guide arranges for these tours to these much-coveted honeymoon hotels in chennai .
the city preserves remnants from the age of the zamorin , such as the mananchiri tank and the jama atpali and mucchandipalli mosques .
a tour to chithirapuram reveals the hill station to be a sleepy little folksy , congregation of nature 's delights .
the embroidery of rabaris is inlaid with triangular square and almond shaped mirrors , which lends it that gorgeous richness .
from ajmer the nearest airport is jaipur which is 135kms away .
hyderabadi cuisine is all nizami delicately flavored and predominantly non vegetarian , while the rest of andhra pradesh relishes a variety of vegetarian dishes .
the historicity of the nagaur city can be traced back to 4th century ad .
the airport is 5 km away from agartala city and taxis and autos transport you to the city .
in an area of 1 , 500 square meters ( 1 , 800 square yards ) , simple but majestic shengdi and doumu halls , yuhuang , wenchang and shengdi pavilions are really elaborate works and masterpieces of taoist architctures .
there are also steeply sloping reef walls , and coral pinnacles or knolls .
the lalbagh botanical garden , spread over 240 acres , was laid by hyder ali and developed by tipu sultan .
the last hindu ruler of kashmir was udyan dev .
common & most popular motorbike safari circuits are in north combining , rajasthan , madhya pradesh , uttar pradeshin south combining , tamil nadu , kerala , & karnataka .
car and bike enthusiasts yearning for more adventure started setting off to cross country expeditions .
a new project is currently being developed by the park administration which will facilitate adventure sports such as hiking , rafting , canyoning , canoeing , boia-cross , and camping .
dense forests cover more than 50 percent of chhattisgarh , india s ninth largest state , with an area of 1 , 36 , 000 sq km .
in almora , located in one of the most picturesque spots in the area , kalmatia sangam himalayan resort is among the classiest in the state .
panipat is often referred to as the handloom capital of india , and you can browse for a wide range durries and carpets .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity , lord rama .
dhruva teela , this marks the place where the child dhruva meditated single mindedly as he stood on one leg .
kozhikode is the historic spot where vasco da gama found india , the land of spices , as he landed on the nearby kappad beach in 1498 .
karakoram is specially characterized by its fissured rocks , gendarme like vertical features and steep slopes presenting great challenge to climbers and adventure seekers .
jodhpur , 80 km from khimsar , is the largest city in the entire marwar region .
bangalore has seen a major technology boom and is now home to more than 250 high-tech companies , including homegrown giants like wipro and infosys .
the mughal court moved to aurangabad and remained there till his death .
andhra pradesh is above all a cheerful mix of many things nice .
go fishing or boating in the river , and take along a picnic badket .
hat noppharat thara ( noppharat thara beach ) is located 6 kilometers from ao nang is a famous 3-kilometer long white sandy beach lined with dense casuarinas and coconut groves .
chennai is a gracious city that has a clear skyline , longest sandy beaches , parks , historic landmarks and tourist infrastructure facilities which make it a convenient entry point or base to start a tour of tamil nadu and south india .
as the crowds only get in at the evening for horseback riding , camel rides and other sundry amusements .
during the monsoons when the ganga floods its banks , the temple gets submerged .
there are a number of ways to get around the city .
the andamans have some fascinating underwater marine life , varieties of colorful fishes , shipwrecks and exotic coral reefs .
even today , the royal family continues to reside at the palace of hua hin for part of the year .
the first is the water gate and the wharf , where shen 's family moored boats and washed clothes .
the indian archaeologists have salvaged the precious ruins from their ancient site , lifting them atop a hill and setting them up in a vihara style museum .
aurangzeb , the last great mughal emperor took over this city in 1653 and renamed it aurangabad .
visitors are allowed to see the ashokan pillar and saraswati kup , a well , said to be the source of the saraswati river and jodhabai palace .
the terrain is mainly comprised of jungles and mountains , which are home to the hill tribes .
the dense forest which cover these islands and the innumerable exotic flowers and birds create a highly poetic and romantic atmosphere .
a 3 , 500 km long and a towering 8 , 848 meter high divine legend garland india and the subcontinent .
souza lobo s been around since 1932 and is run by judd lob , the founder s great grandson , and the keeper of an enviable cache of secret recipes .
taman fatahillah restoration project , begun in the early 1970s has restored one of the oldest sections of jakarta also known as old batavia to approximately its original state .
albert hall was designed by sir swinton jacob and opened in 1887 as a public museum .
kamat lokaruchi is the most popular rest stop for anyone traveling the bangalore mysore stretch .
but then again , like the rest of india , there are festivals that are celebrated by all , regardless of one 's own religion .
a ride on the famous narrow gauge toy train , which has been declared a world heritage site , will show off its landscape at its best .
cast iron made its debut in the construction industry in 1779 with the bridge at coalbrookdale in england , followed in 1803 by the pont des arts bridge in paris .
covent garden grill ( as the name suggests ) is in london 's covent garden and less than 10 minutes stroll from the london eye .
believe the hype uttar pradesh is full of irresistible textiles and crafts .
allahabad one of the oldest cities of india and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the kumbh and ardh kumbh melas held every twelve and six years respectively .
asian readers of time magazine have again voted singapore as their favourite business city announced on 5 dec 2005 .
they disassembled the remains of the broken colossus and sold them to a jew from syria .
arizona s clean , clear , dry air and warm weather attracts older people looking for a retirement home as well as people with respiratory health problems .
the magnolia state , bayou state , eagle state and border-eagle state , mud-cat state , mississippi was after the mississippi river , whose chippewa indian name means `` large river .
must tries are thukpa , the roasted barley flour called ngampe , and skyu , a pasta type dish with root vegetables .
there are two forts , namely , red & black fort , situated on the opposite sides of river neelum .
almost every house in the valley possesses a loom , so if you walk around a bit , might strike a good bargain with a weaver .
regular beach items such as goods fashioned out of sea shells and oysters that make foe colorful decoration pieces are available at devka beach , nani daman .
another impressive temple is the gavi gangadhareswara temple , an unusual cave temple .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
kullu is the second portion of kangra , and the beas here flows amidst broad cultivated terraces , about 1 , 000 meters ( 3 , 281 ft ) above sea level .
the museum also exhibits ancient coins , traditional rajasthani miniature paintings and works of some modern artists including jamini roy and nicholas roerich .
saraswati festival also known as dussehra or navaratri , this festival is held between september and october .
swaswara resort , perched on a cliff overlooking gokarna s om beach , is a resting place for the mind .
a fabulous sita ram temple in the palace attracts number of devotees , especially during ramnavami .
the british continued to control what is now illinois until 1778 when george rogers clark , a revolutionary war hero , and his band of american colonists captured fort kaskaskia .
tirupati is famous for the shrine on the 'seven hills ' of tirumala which attract millions of pilgrims from all over india .
london has the gift for creating cities within a city , which is why it does n't really need a mayor .
there is an army cantonment on the northwestern side of the city .
the french controlled areas along the mississippi river valley in the american bottoms between cahokia and kaskaskia .
however , the name big ben has now passed into every day use and the locals call it big ben so we 'll go along with that too .
even though it s one of the most popular destinations in india , it is still possible to make it your own .
air-conditioned buses from north and west points of palembang are also regulary available , as well as the major cities in java and bali .
the civil war began in 1861 as south carolina troops fired on federal fort sumter in charleston harbor , and the state was the first to secede from the union .
ahmedabad offers a culinary experience par excellence to first time visitors at the open-air village restaurant outside the city .
come and visit us , respond to the call of the valley .
journalist emile goudeau describes the spectacle visiting the construction site at the beginning of 1889 .
on all the ten days , the mysore palace is illuminated and renowned musicians of the state and outside give performances in front of the palace .
many early railroads received land grants from the state and federal governments to offset the cost of construction .
the land of the tiger and the elephant , the peacock and the rhinoceros , tiger at corbett park india 's wildlife is a delight for the nature lover .
kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctuary supports a rich wildlife such as the panther , sloth bear , wild boar , scientifically bred crocodiles and the four horned antelope .
this temple was constructed sometime in the year 1929 a.d. .
by road you can drive into amritsar from neighboring states .
referred to as the great marble temple , or temple d , it was sponsored by the lydian king croesus and was designed by the greek architect chersiphron .
the innermost sanctum inside the chidambaram nataraja temple has idols of lord shiva and goddess parvati .
however , if you are picky about what you eat , then it s a good idea to pack some supplies .
for two hundred years , it was the capital of a muslim dynasty that ruled over a populace that was predominantly hindu .
the majestic ashoka pillar records visit of emperor ashoka to sarnath .
this is the fifth year running that singapore has clinched the accolade .
the bakranath temple located at bakreswar in west bengal , india .
numerous poets , songs and stories about milou tower are wide spread and make it more charming .
the ruins of raj on this ross island bear testimony to the atrocities committed by the british in this erstwhile penal colony .
a procession with a horse , on whose bamk it is believed lord triloknath sits , is carried out through the town .
the maharaja palace is of harmonious synthesis of the hindu and saracenic styles of acrhitecture with archways , domes , turrets , colonnades and sculptures which are magnificent .
hyderabad and secuunderabad are dotted with pearl traders selling strands of loose pearls as well as readymade and custom made jewellery .
the name ban don was , at the time , changed to kanchanadit .
tree-lined streets and abundant greenery made bangalore the ' garden city ' of india .
one of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of jaisalmer , lodurva is known for the famous jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year .
nourishment for the body is as tempting as that for the soul with a selection of fresh seafood , prepared with produce from the area s farms .
glenburn tea estate , the path to this tea eatate might challenge a mountain goat , but no one s complaining .
the low-land terai oceupies about 17 percent of the total land area of the country .
today , manufacturing is the state 's largest employer , based largely on resources found in south carolina .
large-scale coal mining in eastern kentucky 's mountains began in the early 1900s as the railroads penetrated previously isolated areas .
it was he , who finally broke the power of arabs in sindh .
milk sweets simmered in large works for hours and then rolled in dry fruits and flavored with cardamom .
it is famous for its beautiful paithani silk saris , adorned with intricate zari ( gold embroidered ) borders .
you get the full impact of this impressive structure from boats on the river .
ao nang has recently emerged as a 5-star tourist attraction due to its numerous 4-5 star hotels and boutique resorts complete with facilities such as diving shops and rental boats .
there is the bonus of the viewing the magnificent sand bars that connects the twin islands of ross and smith .
fur trading played an important role in nebraska s pre-territorial history .
world famous institutions like indian institute of technology , anna university is here .
the temple was decorated with bronze statues sculpted by the most skilled artists of their time : pheidias , polycleitus , kresilas , and phradmon .
it is a veritable treasure house of buddhist sculptures .
this long island between sumbawa and timor is crowded with volcanoes and mountains dividing it into several distinct regions with individual languages and traditions .
african american citizens , joined by governor leroy collins and other white supporters , fought to end racial discrimination in schools and other institutions .
major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops .
this challenging and memorable activity takes at least 3 days and passes streams , waterfalls , caves and view points on high cliffs .
fur trappers and traders began working their trade in the rocky mountains .
the earlier styles are well represented in the gandar , ladkhan , hucchapaya and kontigudi temple complexes , while the jain meguti temple and the impressive 7th century durga temple are samples from a later date .
in 1889 the tower was a colossal fairground attraction , but during the 1920s it became a symbol of modernity and the avant-garde , inspiring poets such as guillaume apollinaire , film-makers , photographers and numerous painters .
this synthesis of society and culture is evident in the buildings of the fort .
preserving the flavour of a bygone era , with no televisions or air conditioners , the large high ceilinged rooms are tastefully decorated with period furniture .
it is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer , receive favors and feel amply gratified .
the napo , galeras , cutucu , and condor ranges are located here .
whites make up 86.6 percent of the population while asians are 3 percent percent .
srirangapatna s mausoleum , the gumbaz , which sports ivory inlaid doors and the famous tiger-striped emblem , is also nearby .
amboli is 549 km from mumbai and 390 km from pune .
he instructed his son and successor guru arjan dev to construct a temple at the site , which would be the focus of the sikh religion .
shimla the summer capital of india before independence is now the capital of himachal pradesh .
there is also a one-hour commentary for each scene , along with a light and sound show .
temple at somnathpur is embellished with a profusion of finely sculpted friezes and panels .
jaipur is surrounded by hills and dotted with forts , and is one of the links to the famed golden triangle of north india along with delhi and agra .
apart from the delectable food , the sunday brunch at la piazza stylish eatery also packs in a huge amount of snob appeal .
these churches are resplendent in their classical elegance and fine internal furnishings .
for crunchy fried bliss , beef or pork skin wafers are perfection itself .
when it comes to the complete synchronization of the sentiment of the place and the mood of the travelers then , khajuraho wins hands down with the honeymooners in india .
as the capital city , jakarta is a melting pot of representatives from each of these ethnic groups .
presently , motor sport includes activities like autocross , motocross , drag racing , motor gymkhana , treasure hunts and precise family rallies .
in the field of philosophy kashmir 's contribution is the `` shiva school of thought `` , which assumed a distinctive character in the valley .
to do justice to the menu , stick to one cuisine for each course .
once the largest princely state in india , hyderabad had its own flag , currency , railway , and postal system , before being incorporated into the indian nation .
it has a distinctive hill station character with traditional carved wooden facades on buildings and shops at ground level .
what s more surprising is that those followers achieved this rare feat with just the help of few mallets and chisels .
even the locals get lost , so allow plenty of time to navigate .
depending on your interests , different seasons will be perceived as more ideal than others to make this venture .
if malam jabba and its surroundings have already began to charm you , then you must visit these places and experience the enchantment for yourself .
an equestrian statue of chhatrapati shivaji and statue of swami vivekananda have been installed here .
all motorists driving into the city or travelling on certain major roads and expressways are required to pay an electronic road pricing ( erp ) fee during the erp operating hours .
chiang mai not only became the capital and cultural core of the lanna kingdom , it was also the centre of buddhism in northern thailand .
television companies often use both this park and the grass area across the road near the jewel tower , where they interview politicians .
the islands total length , from north to south , is estimated at 48.7 kilometers and approximately 21.3 kilometers wide .
the kimkhab and tanchoi brocades are the finest , most opulent you ll find in varanasi .
apart from the hindus and buddhists , muslim from the third largest religious group .
the northern side is occupied by writers ' building .
there is so much to see in this incredible city .
dalhousie is a gateway to the chamba valley .
this is the oldest anglican church in asia .
central java is located exactly in the middle of java island .
the pool , which can be visited all year round , charges and entrance fee of 20 baht .
the mighty ganges originates from gaumukh in garhwal region of the himalayas .
just a seashell s throw from the baga beach , this is one of the most ambient little boutique hotels in the state .
ahalya bai constructed the existing temple in the year 1776 .
nahargarh meaning abode of the tigers was built by jai singh to bolster the defense of amer .
the flower show is the pride of the festival .
lying 7 kms from the centre is the holiest spot in allahabad , the sangam ( confluence ) .
100 km south of agartala is where excavations are still in progress .
the ruling military junta assumed wide-ranging powers , its main aim being to eliminate the communist party and other leftist opposition .
the cornhusker state , beef state , nebraska is named from an oto indian word meaning ' flat water .
bangalore is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
famed for its beautiful maheshwari and chanderi saris , madhya pradesh also nurtures a wealth of unique arts and crafts .
indeed , a large part of the state is located in the narrow valley that the river has created over the ages .
aizawl , the capital of mizoram , is perched precariously on a sharp ridge and has the atmosphere of a himalayan hill station .
gorakhnath temple , an ancient pilgrimage destination , is dedicated to guru gorakhnath .
the 37 meter gopuram is especially noteworthy for its intricate carvings depicting tales from hindu mythology .
mountain men , including some spaniards and mexicans , lived off the land as trappers and hunters .
an ideal destination to explore the rustic charm of rajasthan , khimsar is famous for its fort .
brazilians enjoy a good party whatever the circumstances .
nowhere in the world there is such a great concentration of high mountains , peaks , glaciers and passes except pakistan .
at one happy time , the club was the meeting place for every planter in the whole of the dooars .
the feeling only becomes stronger as you come face to face with the terracotta red 19th century beach villa , with its charming blue shutters and tiled roof .
the state capital is oklahoma city , other major cities or towns include tulsa , norman , and lawton .
presently being restored , this palace is particularly beautiful at night with the floodlights lit .
though all that remains of this magnificent piece of architecture is ruins , it is still an interesting pilgrimage site .
its designer sir giles gilbert scott also designed the famous anglican cathedral in liverpool .
several centuries later the portugese took possession of the island .
spain was secretly ceded the louisiana territory , which included much of colorado , at the end of the french and indian wars in 1763 .
jaisalmer fort built in 1156 by the bhatti ruler , jaisala , the fort stands atop the 80 m high trikuta hill .
the fort was originally built as protection , was later used by the royal family as the residence in the 18th century .
as burma had occupied chiang mai for nearly 200 years , burmese architectural influences are visible in many temples .
the more adventurous newly wedded one can go ahead to treks emanating from leh .
a porter shall be insured for a sum of rs.50 , 000/- ( rupees fifty thousand ) only .
for an authentic goan experience , visit astoria , run by ida and edwin fonseca out of a converted old home .
it is one of those rare places in the world with five distinct seasons-pring , summer , monsoon , autumn and winter .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
with designs inspired by nature , myth and religion woven into silk , which is embellished with gold threads and contrasting border , they are both sensous and dramatic .
in the hilly reaches , panthers and leopards have been known to attack people and carry away small children .
the chidambaram nataraja temple is an excellent example of a unique amalgamation of a number of architectural styles .
this temple was constructed by maharaja gulab singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son maharaja ranbir singh in the year 1860 a.d. .
views on the new docklands in architectural terms may vary but it is beyond dispute that an exciting new area for living and working in has been created .
the homeless tribe settled near the red river on land received from the caddos , a tribe from texas .
until 1924 when the last emperor of china was driven from the inner court , fourteen emperors of the ming dynasty and ten emperors of the qing dynasty had reigned .
the rhodians received an immediate offer from ptolemy iii eurgetes of egypt to cover all restoration costs for the toppled monument .
the sol kadi is perfect beverage accompaniment , as is the kokum juice .
the town of chamba is located in the colorful valley surrounded by the shivalik ranges and has the district headquarters .
perched on a cliff overlooking the river , the tranquility and scenic surroundings make up for the bare banes facilities .
shimla , the capital of himachal pradesh , is also called the `` queen of the hill stations .
ganjam has stores in bangalore and mumbai and also has collaborated with international designers like kazuo ogawa and yumi kastsura , names to reckon with in the fashion industry .
gol ghar is 1 km away from patna city and it is a huge beehive shaped structure built in 1786 by captain john garstin , following the famine of 1770 .
shiva is another name for independence , and the only reality of the universe is shiva who is infinite consciousness , and unrestricted independence .
if you want to experiment and have your caocktail attar , try nizam attar ( charkaman ) or hyderabadi perfumes ( pathargatti ) .
its delicious momos and gyathuk and bhagthuk soup are legendary .
because of its strategic location in peninsular india , aurangzeb made it his capital from where he tried to quell the rising power of the marathas .
you can get to town by a pre booked rented car , taxis or auto rickshaws .
named after a certain monsieur ross who built a house on it in 1864 , it has now been converted into a chapel .
the hindu temples with profuse carvings and the imposing gopurams of the southern temples are an eloquent testimony to the fine art of indian architecture .
alexander the great ( 326 bc ) had an encounter with the sibia tribe of balochistan .
many varieties of orchid abound here , in a range of stunning colours .
exotic wildlife , regal structures and platters of scrumptious eats the mahatma s state gujarat has more facets than we know of it .
steps lead down to the river ghats from where you can look up at the soaring , golden spires of the several temples dotting the area .
there are several decorated palaces like moti mahal , phool mahal , sheesh mahal are located inside the mehrangarh fort .
the plot of the boi drama centers around the misfortunes of the prize bull which a wealthy cattle rancher has arduously searched for to improve his herd .
in barren island all you see is a protruding earth , but this defiantly worth a few photos because barren island is india s only active volcano .
another historic site is the gauri shanker temple that you can visit during your tours to the temples of haridwar .
kabab , around jama masjid , when it is comes to spicy , succulent , delhi s probably second only to lucknow .
dunked in thick tomato gravy with chillies , this crab masala tastes much better after the hard work that goes into ending it , try this with roties and parathas .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
the laotian influence was told in the provincial seal which features a pond with a lotus flower and leaves in a circular frame .
the fact they failed should not be attributed to the inherent flaws in their scheme as it should on the less evident fact that their empires were crumbling .
jaigarh fort was cleverly built to give its archers an advantage over their targets .
national championships were instituted and winners became cult figures .
the island lies between thaneermukkom and kumarakom , and is accessible only by boat .
a monk started the caves construction work that spanned ten dynasties .
the red government buildings are a study in contrast against the remarkably white old british buildings still in existence , notably the maharajas palace .
the most incredible feature is that they were chiseled top downwards from a 2 km sheer rock escarpment .
concordia this chaotic jumble of ice and rocks looks like an amphitheater rimmed by ice streams descending from four highest mountains of the karakorams ( k-2 , gasherbrum-i , gasherbrum-ii and gasherbrum-iv ) .
the fifth largest state of india , andhra pradesh is irrigated by the mighty krishna and the godavari rivers and is aptly termed as the ' rice granary of india .
jakarta is the capital city of the republic of indonesia , a country composed of more than 13 , 000 islands with a population of over 180 million .
best month to visit october to march is the best period to visit the city .
state roadways buses and private bus companies connect aurangabad from pune ( 5 hours ) , nashik ( 5 hours ) indore .
the erstwhile garden city has now been pegged the 'silicon valley ' of india .
most of the local pubs are owned by youngs , an excellent family run brewer based in nearby wandsworth and are well worth a visit .
in the province , there are 50 national preserved forests , 3 national parks , 2 botanical gardens , 1 wild life preservation area and 1 botanical park .
though the superstructure has been completely destroyed over the years there is a large block right in the middle of the debris .
the place is crowded on most evenings , especially weekends , and a patient wait is suitably rewarded .
coriander leaf emphasises home cooking .
in 1998 , pinochet officially retired and chile has begun to come to terms with his legacy .
chennai , the gracious capital city of tamil nadu is the fourth largest metropolis in india .
there is one difference between the two temples and that is dhathamandir does not have a colonnade .
the paragliding ashram is so known because it also runs a school offering both weekends and five day introductory courses for adventurous .
this ancient religious town is known as kasi that signifies the age-old hindu belief that this was the place where rays of light fell for the first time after creation .
buy their beautiful handicrafts , taste their mouthwatering food and return with a treasure trove of pleasant memories .
darjeeling is bengal s dream .
when there are high levels of rainfall , the falls are at their fullest and most powerful state .
the deccan odyssey luxury train is maharashtra s answer to rajasthan s palace on wheels .
one has to remember that hyderabad is a predominantly islamic state and therefore , it stands to reason that the festivals that stand out will be those of the muslims .
the descent into betalghat is equally dramatic .
today , almost one third of the region west of the missouri river belongs to native americans .
if you wish to begin your holiday in kumaon on a memorable note , the cottage is the perfect place for you .
this is the only overland opening between the two countries , which continue to have hostile relations ever since independence in 1947 .
they traveled through nebraska from 1700 to 1760 , in 1804m the lewis and clark expedition mapped the eastern boundary of nebraska .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
you will notice that the walls of the ruins of this ancient temple are adorned with statutes of hindu deities , the most prominent being that of lord shiva .
light cottons are the best clothing , except in winter , when light woolens are required .
khon kaen is the centre of the northeastern silk industry with numerous villages producing their own mudmee designs .
now , chail could measure up to a much larger shimla , the summer capital of the british empire , and another hill station in india .
during the urs fair , folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices .
minjar fair has been declared as one of the state fairs of himachal pradesh .
though the capital of gujarat was shifted from ahmedabad to gandhinagar , it is still the second largest industrial city in western india .
it borders with west java province in the western part , while in the eastern part borders with east java province .
in the month of february , you will find hawkers selling papari wrapped in colorful newspaper .
several banks are located in agra .
an exclusive up gradation of the traditional ' haat ' .
built by maharana kumbha in the 15th century , the fort extends over 12km and encloses many temples , gardens and palaces .
the palace of nana sahib was reduced to rubble by the british in 1857 and the only traces remaining of it are some large well heads and broken palace walls .
built in the 12th century , a fine example of dravidian temple architecture , krishnaraja wodeyar renovated the chamundeswari temple in 1827 .
cochin is also one of the finest natural harbors of the world and a major indian port .
the jesuits made use of the music to catechize the indians by replacing the original words with religious ones using the tupi language .
you can hire a private car from a travel agent or car rental company to move around agartala .
for hospitality , nothing beats the mayfair and windamere hotels .
some people believe that samba was born in the streets of rio de janeiro with contributions from three different cultures - portuguese country songs , african rhythms , and native indian fast footwork .
the london transport museum is a great place to take the children with heaps of interactive exhibits .
chon buri is the center of the eastern seaboard development project , with its industrial parks and fishing villages .
kovalam beach ( 16 km south of thiruvanthapuram ) is perhaps the most famous spot of the malabar coast , considered by many as india 's finest and something of an unforgettable experience .
the hall at middle temple witnessed the opening night of shakespeare 's twelfth night in 1602 and contains a table made from the wood of sir francis drake 's ship .
modelled on the taj mahal , aurangabad 's mughal tomb garden was built by prince azam khan in memory of his mother , begum rabia daurani .
there is a huge ice lingam inside the amarnath cave that represents the main deity .
in addition to the folk dances , there are many dance dramas ( really theatrical productions ) popular in brazil that trace their histories directly to the middle ages .
everything means everything a tourist can imagine while on holiday : recreation , entertainment , sports , sightseeing and fun .
just off holland road and outside the orchard road area , the dempsey enclave is no longer only known for its antique , teak furniture shops and carpet dealers .
overlying the foundation was a stepped podium which sides were decorated with statues .
the present splendid dome over the mazar was constructed by emperor shahjahan , who also constructed the jama masjid in the year 1638 .
the structure was rectangular in plan , with base dimensions of about 40 m ( 120 ft ) by 30 m ( 100 ft .
patna planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy and also holds exhibitions .
the earliest inhabitants were the kubus , who were among the first wave of malays to migrate to sumatra .
west sumatra province is divided among 8 regencies and 6 municipals with padang as its capital city .
without a doubt , the rock cut monuments at ajanta and ellora are the prime attraction for people visiting aurangabad .
florida was settled long before europeans had discovered the peninsula .
first time visitors to amritsar could be forgiven for the impressions that amritsar is like any other small town in northern india .
rallying the mission to test man & machine against indian terrain also rose to become a popular sport .
the period also saw the establishment of small janapadas or republics in himachal pradesh .
it is a major tourist attraction and centers upon the piazza which was originally designed by inigo jones in the 1630s .
espelho and coruipe are two interconnected beaches surrounded by lush coconut groves , enticing reefs , natural pools , soaring white and red rock cliffs .
chan and muk are still highly respected by phuket residents even today .
however , they must pay sgd 0.60 when departing and / or arriving into singapore via the tuas checkpoint .
if you are carrying dutiable articles , you have to pass through the red channel for detailed customs clearance .
sant jarnail singh bhindranwale , a militant sikh leader gave a call for separate nationhood , which spread like wildfire throughout the state .
old dominion , ancient dominion , cavalier state , virgina was named in 1584 in honor of queen elizabeth of england , who was popularly called the `` virgin queen .
mahua flower-buds also make a delicious sweet .
at the height of its power , the lanna kingdom extended its territory far into burma and laos , and southwards to kamphaeng phet a province above sukhothai .
a first aid kit with essential medicines for fevers , colds , tummy upsets and antihistamine is necessary even though most chemist shops will have well stocked shelves .
dharamshala is famous as the abode of the dalai lama and is called as the `` little lhasa ' because of the large number of tibetan population .
foreign nationals are not allowed to visit nicobar islands .
the temple building has four entrances instead of the usual single entry .
a panoramic vie of bithoor can be enjoyed from valmiki ashram .
whether it s dreadlocks of afros , body piercing or tatto parlours ingo s has it all .
after several periods of expansion , it is one of the most famous taoist temples in wuzhong region .
you will find chamba chukh in shops all over dalhousie in two version mild and mouth fire .
tiananmen square , surrounded by a six meter deep moat and a ten meter high wall are 9 , 999 buildings .
a remarkable feature of nepal is the religious homogeneity what exists , particularly between the hindu and buddhist communities .
from an architectural standpoint , the monument has been used as a model for many prototypes along the mediterranean , as far away as spain .
feel like a spot of tea , you ll love the sweetmeat basket that is brought along with evening tea at little wayside eateries .
on both sides of the taj are two identical red sandstone mosques .
famous and much loved festival of northern india is called kullu dussehra , begins in october on the day that the rest of the country stops celebrating in himachal .
the 12th century temple is dedicated to lord shiva .
many villages belonging to the main tribal groups the warli , kokna and dudhiyas can be visited near madhuban dam .
today , bolghatty palace is a hotel run by the kerala tourism development corporation .
flanked by bangladesh on the west and myanmar on the east and south , our hilly state of mizoram is synonymous with peace .
in delhi one can see , the mingling of many cultures , languages , tradition and peoples into one united nation .
made of local golden-yellow sandstone and wood , some of the havelis are still in excellent condition .
the other tourist places in haridwar include kalika temple , kankhal temples , tapkeshwar temple dedicated to lord shiva .
similar to the great pyramid , we are now visiting the burial place of an ancient king .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
a perfect blend of arts , culture and craft is presented in shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material .
auto rickshaws are the all time favorites as their drivers often double as local guides .
the minarets have a slightly outward incline , to prevent them from falling on the monument during an earthquake .
the production of paddy increased and the price of one khirwar ( nearly two mounds ) came down to 36 dinars from 200 dinars .
the placing of old pennies in the mechanism controls the accuracy of the clock movement , yet it is incredibly accurate .
neelekurunji flowers , which bloom once in every 12 years , carpet the serene hills of munnar .
in 1803 , the louisiana purchase was acquired by the united states , and , in 1819 , arkansas was organized as a territory .
when the portuguese penetrated the indian ocean in the late 15th century , they arrived at india 's southwestern coast .
the finely handcrafted ornaments sold in bastar s haat .
it is rare to come across a place that welcomes the 21st century with an ' adaab ' .
wenlock downs is a region of extensive grasslands with shoals or gallery forests of eucalyptus .
unearthed artifacts include stone tools , bronze implements , metal coins , pottery shards , ceramic and stone decorative art and colored beads that are over 5 , 000 years old in this wat khlong thom museum .
but the golden temple is a serene presence , radiating a calm that makes people bow their heads in reverence .
ajmer was also favorite residence for the great mughals .
a fine blend of indo-european architecture , dutch palace acquired the present name after it was renovated by the dutch in 1663 .
change money only at authorized foreign exchange outlets/banks/hotels and insist on proper receipt .
national parks & monuments of utah are arches , bryce canyon , canyonlands , capitol reef , zion , cedar breaks , dinosaur , grand staircase - escalante , hovenweep , natural bridges , rainbow bridge , and timpanogos cave .
the animal life is thick with ghoral , kakkar , sambhar and cheer pheasants , to name a few animals .
but kumarghat is insurgency prone so check the current situation before going there .
lakshadweep offers excellent wind surfing , snorkeling and scuba diving in the crystal clear waters of the lagoons which surround each island .
phang-nga is a province with two characters - land and sea - and packed with national parks that guard magnificent scenery with immensely different attractions .
today , the london eye has become , quite literally , the way the world sees london .
not many oriya dishes are popular , as they haven t been marketed , but the cooking in every oriya home is delicious .
from the pier , hire a rental boat and travel along the tha prang canal for approximately 15 minutes .
for a great holiday , come to mizoram .
tropical moist deciduous forests grow in the terai and the northern areas .
nestling amidst tall trees , the wonders of the dense simlipal forest is at your doorstep here .
boat quay is one of the best spots in singapore for alfresco dining .
monal ' the state bird of himachal pradesh and one of the endangered species of himalayan region has been the other attractions .
jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture , traditional jodhpuri handicrafts , dye textiles , leather shoes , antiques , embroidered shoes carpets , tie & dye sarees , silver jewellery , local handicrafts & textiles , lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from jodhpur .
content in their lifestyles and traditions , the people of meghalaya will be happy to welcome you into their home .
the most notable place of worship in the district of bilaspur is the temple of shri naina devi ji .
with a population of 6 million people , chennai is a vibrant city ever growing , expanding and changing every year .
a trade-free zone , it is on the fast track to development , but has retained its natural splendour .
the seal of surat thani says a lot about its history .
a narrow causeway links the harmandir , or darbar sahib , the temple .
i loved staying with the friendly villagers in their homes and living the way they do , eating with them , learning about them .
porters restaurant on henrietta street provides splendid british food at very reasonable prices if you 're in need of sustenance .
allahabd is the most vibrant politically spiritually conscious and spiritually awakened city of india .
it remains for the others a place to be to discover making a tour to munnar a must .
private vehicles are not allowed in so buses abound , rumbling and roaring their way around , drowning out any chance of seeing animals .
bookings can be made at the service counters at the airport s arrival hall .
heavan for the nature lover , meghalaya has the balpakram national park , nongkhyllem bird sanctuary , siju bird sanctuary and nokrek biosphere reserve to experience nature in all its glory .
only 67 miles away from nainital , almora is surrounded by the trishul peaks on the northern side .
beautiful scrolls and floral patterns decorate the church .
western colorado was obtained from mexico ( which had won its independence from spain ) by the treaty of guadalupe hidalgo , which ended the mexican war in 1848 .
their vision was clear from aurangabad they would be better able to control both northern and southern regions of their empires .
by the year 1885 , the time when the tower was being constructed , the use of iron and steel in bridges and building frameworks had become widespread .
the foundation stone of red sandstone ghat was laid by tikait rai , a minister of awadh state .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
iromba is prepared by boiling vegetables ( potatoes , onions , green herbs or ferns ) , ngari and red hot chillies .
apart from the beaches and its marine life nicobari mats are what made andamans famous the world over .
there were tens of thousands of people in villages near the mississippi river and other groups located across the state .
the countries varied and beautiful landscape should make this goal feasible .
if you re looking for the ultimate fine dining experience , then head to the banyan tree at the taj holiday village .
endangered species of the order of snow leopard , blue sheep and musk deer comprise the predominant fauna of sikkim .
khao khanap nam has beautiful caves with amazing stalactites and stalagmites worth exploring .
there are rows upon rows of shops on each street selling specifics goods .
daman is home to some of the country s finest churches , relics from the time of the portuguese rule between 1531 and 1961 .
the bird sanctuary kumarakom , which is spread across 14 acres , is a favorite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist 's paradise .
phi phi islands and the coastal hills are composed mainly of limestone and are an extension of the limestone mountain range in phang-nga province .
shawls , scarves , stoles and bedspreads of himroo can be bought near zafar gate in mondhard district or visit a factory to see the actual creative process .
both of them are in ruins now , but even then , they stand as the most imposing monuments of ancient kashmir .
kabaadi bazaar famous sunday market began life in the lawns of lal quila before moving to its present location in daryaganj .
pattaya s coastline is 15 kilometers long so there is many beaches for tourists .
spectacular views apart , the himalayan foothills are just ideal for trekking , offering energetic outdoor people a different and exciting option for a holiday .
the changing the guard ceremony now takes place only every other day in the winter but it is still daily in the summer months .
some of the most popular temples that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
general augusto pinochet ugarte was declared supreme chief of state and president , and remained in power despite considerable opposition from many sectors of society .
although part of it was gutted a few years ago , there are rows upon rows of little shops still thriving .
the bricks were made from white lime and glutinous rice while the cement is made from glutinous rice and egg whites .
painted a bright vermilion red , the color associated with hanuman , the temple houses a reclining image of the god .
the andes mountain range crosses the country from north to south .
you could also visit aurangabad between october and march , when the weather is pleasant .
besides , it has a collection of contemporary paintings as well .
it is surrounded by a white marble corridor , which is encircled by pilgrims visiting the shrine .
the first trading post in montana was established at the mouth of the bighorn in 1807 by a trading expedition that manuel lisa led up the missouri from st. louis .
from wooden temple cars to intricately carved panels , erotic figurines and floral motifs , woodcraft has been part of tamil nadu s heritage since time immemorial .
another building , the ( palace of winds ) allowed the ladies of the harem to catch the cool evening breeze .
fatehpur sikri is about 39 km from agra .
in the center of the building is the hall where the cochin rajas held their coronations .
nepali , serves the purpose of the kingdom 's lingua franca in nepal while the educated people speak and understand english as well .
tourist infrastructure leaves much to be desired and there is very little to see in the city except interesting markets .
india travel destinations does congratulatory work to promote honeymoon in kerala for honeymooners in india .
by the middle of the 18th century , the royal family moved into the fort when a new zenana or ladies ' residence was added to the existing construction .
the drawing is traced on the board , the pieces of glass , semi-precious stones and ornamental pieces are stuck to the board .
singapore s mice ( meetings , incentive travel , conventions and exhibitions ) facilities were also voted the best in asia for the second year in a row .
there are arts villages as well as designer stores to entice the shopper , road on to know what you shouldn t miss .
mumbai a cluster of seven islands derives its name from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisher folk , its oldest inhabitants. mumbai image .
flowers two thousand years old sparkle like jewels , vivid figures move with life , gift bearing ladies serve goldlike kings .
even as you enter the state , you will begin to see , to feel , why goa is the favoured destination of travelers from all over the globe .
even today most tribal people of balochistan province resemble arabs and the inhabitants can be quite a fascinating subject of study by anthropologists .
tourist lodge , with its extensive paddy fields , champhai , about 192 km east of aizawl , is picture-perfect countryside on the indo-myanmar border .
johnson s cafe is the perfect place for those who appreciate grilled trout and sumptuous italian fare .
with the mind boggling variety of embroidered dress materials and bedspreads and all types of curios , the night market is a one stop shop for speedy souvenir buying .
the national parks system in thailand was previously cited its growing importance to the eco-tourism industry .
these rock cut sites are dated to the 8 th or 9 th centuries .
referred to as the venice of the east by travelers from across the world , this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life .
one of the most impressive palaces constructed during the last half of the 19th century the lallgarh palace defies the bleak and rugged reality of the harsh thar desert around bikaner .
camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to himachal and sharing the warmth of its people .
you really can use the word unique for staying in wood-panelled luxe rooms in a boat , floating on the waters of the dal or nagin , or the river jhelum .
arabic kafta kebab and chicken satay make great starters ; the steaks fish , chicken and tenderloin are fusion s specialty .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol has begun to adhere to western standards .
the marwari has a beautiful head crowned by perky lure shaped ears meeting at the tips .
there is a gold idol of annapoorna , the deity of the temple located within the temple premises .
the ' baradari ' pavilion was built by shah jahan , to facilitate his long stays in ajmer .
though the climate is suitable for visit anytime of the year , the best season is between october-february and just avoids june when it is too hot to sightsee .
as the sun sets , a different world comes to life in singapore .
pithoragarh , also called ' miniature kashmir ' , is the base for treks to jolinkong .
the palace was set in the middle of lake pichola , across from his father 's lakeside residence ensuring the access was by boat .
habitat amritsar lies in the state of punjab , just 29 kms away from the border of pakistan .
the manor has the air of an old english bunglow , where understated elegance and discreet service combine to leave you feeling like a visiting dignitary .
around & about by air ajmer does not have an airport of its own but the nearest airport is at jaipur ( 130 km .
the daria daulat , tipu s summer palace with a beautifully gilded and painted interior and the majestic gumbaz his mausoleum , are located close to the river .
the kashi-vishwanath temple is also known as the golden temple and is a popular religious tourist destination .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
everyone is a stakeholder in the process and we clearly need to avoid our past shortcomings and negative impact that they have had .
the entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic , precious stones , gold and silver work .
by train ahmedabad is well connected to most destinations in the country as well as to the different towns in gujarat .
the peculiar note of his fusion art form is to take up cudgels against the social injustices and discrimination prevailing in the society .
the ancestors of many north dakotans emigrated from norway , germany , russia , and canada .
one can still see evidences of the early buddhist influence in amravati and at nagarjunakonda , one of the greatest archaeological sites in the country .
the assembly of the tower was a marvel of precision , as all chroniclers of the period agree .
he then sang the monsoon raga , megh malhar invoking the rains and so doused the flames .
steam chickpea cake cut into squares , khaman is extremely popular in silvassa .
for those who love to travel and cook , pick up a culinary tip or two at some of the culinary academies in singapore .
adventure tourism in india offers rare opportunities of the order of parasailing , skiing , water sports , river rafting , trekking and mountain climbing to name some of the chief deals on offer in india .
a fun and popular feature in lord s central is the giant floor chess set , perfect for recreating the scene from harry potter .
this honeymoon destination in india ideally suited for the benefit of the more restive of the honeymooners in india , is the proud possessor of several landmarks of note .
un metered auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws are the most common mode of local transport within the city .
unlike phi phi , scuba dive operators in ao nang close from may to october .
who knows , you may even learn to fashion combs out of bell metal .
the early detailed descriptions of the temple helped archeologists reconstruct the building .
these are the nilamadhava temple , padmeswara temple , kanakeswara temple , kenduli temple and the kosaleswara temple .
try the fish fry or the portuguese style pomfret curry .
the ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the serpent god nagaraja .
a charming village like atmosphere pervades the streets and lanes of barnes due in part to the conspicuous absence of a tube station .
thailand and the philippines are a short plane journey away .
the kamakhya devi temple in assam , india is an important religious site that you may visit during your temple tours to assam , india .
in lucknow , try the popular prakash kulfi at the aminabad crossroads .
today the spelling of the name has been simplified to pattaya .
the auli resort has snow beaters , which beat the snow to keep the slopes , fit for skiing at all times .
portuguese in origin , these dance dramas have been modified considerably by centuries of exposure to brazil 's diverse cultures .
on eastern metropolitan bypass , science city is an area of knowledge and adventure .
orissa is also a storehouse of colourful handicrafts and weave available in a wide range of designs and patterns .
over 100 rooms are divided into three sections and each one is connected by arcades and aisles .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
about a third of tourist revenues are spent on colorado s world famous ski slopes , such as vail and aspen .
mu ko lanta national parks main island is ko lanta yai , where both the headquarters and national park office are located .
monsoons bring some respite while winters are cold with minimum temperatures falling down to 4 c .
large-scale european immigration provided labor to mine coal , run steel mills , and enhance the economy and culture of the state .
metal casting and the embossing if designs on metal are longstanding traditions all over the state of karnataka .
during your temple tours to the vimal vashi temple you 'll notice the grandeur of this jain temple that is almost 98 feet high .
it is also an excellent base to explore the interiors of kerala , the southernmost region of india , and from kochi , the lakshadweep islands .
located on rinkingpong rd , nature interpretation centre consists of a number of well-organized dioramas , which depict the effects of human activity on the environment .
on the way to mandu , indore or maheshwar , take the detour to the bagh buddhist rock cut caves .
there must be hope that the political climate becomes just as clement very soon .
the agra fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders , akbar and later on by jahangir and shahjahan .
pench jungle camp is situated right where mowgli ran with the wolves in kipling s the jungle book .
the fortress is remembered mostly for muhammed bin tughlaks abortive attempt to shift his capital from delhi to daulatabad in the early 14th century .
organic farming is being promoted everywhere , and a recently developed destination is dhudhni dam or dudhani , which is 19 km from khanvel in a splendid forested area .
this area is ideal for day hikes from aizawl .
the forests are a treasure trove of rare and exotic flora and fauna .
you can try your hand at a variety of adventure sports like skiing , heli-skiing , paragliding and mountaineering .
sit out in a courtyard and wash the sea food down with some chilled beer , and more , sachintendulakar loves to eat here .
dera baba bharbhag singh place has famous gurudwara where thousand of sikhs visit every year to receive the blessing of baba bharbhag singh .
holiday camping vis a vis hotel accommodation is gathering momentum amongst the metropolis traveler .
festivals of the order of malani , phalguni , shahri jatra and birshu are carried on with great gusto and fanfare in the kullu valley , a prominent hill station in india .
in 1790 congress organized the territory south of the ohio river , and tennessee joined the union in 1796 .
in recent years , jakarta has expanded its facilities for visitors with luxury hotels , fine restaurants , exciting nightlife and modern shopping centers .
the bulky animals move around with surprising speed and poise .
a bus or car ride from bangalore would take approximately 3 hours for mysore .
home to the nizams , reportedly , the world 's richest royals , hyderabad is also home to famous folk arts like shadow puppetry and kuchipudi .
a cheerful bazaar here features a wide range of colorful products , ranging from local handicrafts to some rather interesting imported goods .
the ethnic of jakarta called `` orang betawi `` speaks betawi malay , spoken as well in the surrounding towns such as bekasi and tangerang .
if it were , you could see the cells where prisoners were held awaiting trial in the mansion house magistrates court .
as a prominent hill station in india , phagli celebrated by the malani tribe is of immense significance to tourists .
within its fold , the mountains of nagaland hold a million surprises .
summers get really hot and visitors need to acclimatize themselves to this dry and searing heat .
entertainment facilities at the vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach .
arkansas wasn t readmitted to the union until 1868 , when it finally adopted a constitution giving african americans the right to vote and hold office .
one of the oldest buildings in mussoorie , built in 1836 , this former palace of the raja kasmanda has been converted into an elegant resort .
in pench jungle camp you will camp ot in deluxe tents , equipped with all the comforts of running water , battery charged electricity and cosy furniture .
something of an institution , souza lobo s is a set in a charming goan home right on the calangute .
later the silver and copper mines drew irish , cornish , and many other immigrants to butte .
what is now south dakota was once claimed by france .
king 's road is the main shopping area and provides a wealth of opportunity for the keen shopper .
the yellow river 's lower reaches ends in a delta on the bohai sea .
no trekking is allowed in closed zones which are the areas near pak-afghan border and near the line of control with indian-held kashmir .
then , sunglasses and the attendant sun screening equipment is a necessity if the weather during motorcycle safari in india gets a bit warm .
kufri is a small hill station near shimla .
canoeing and kayaking operators are available at ao nang .
the inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated .
visit ranchandra jewellers , lal bazaar , gangtok .
there are also magnificent sand bars connecting sets of twin islands during low tide a rare phenomenon you may not find anywhere else .
this fact gave rise to a curious composite culture , which was hailed by many .
the nearest convenient railhead is north lakshimpur in assam , 50 km from naharlagun and 60 km from itanagar .
the palace hotel is surrounded by towering palm trees and is built with intricately carved black stone and italian marble .
the checkpoint between the two countries of india and bangladesh is at akhaura junction , 2km from agartala .
there are wax models of the famous and infamous from every walk of life .
more immigrants settle in california than any other state , more than one third of the nation 's total in 1994 .
you will want to take home one of these creations .
poet ghyasuddin had designed the verses on the tombstone , while ismail khan afridi of turkey was the dome maker .
fishing for trout and bass remains the number one attraction in arkansas waters , boating , sailing , swimming , skiing , scuba diving and snorkeling are also popular .
kullu among all hill stations in india enjoys a special significance , as it is the hub of himalayan adventure sports activities .
specialist equipment such as ropes is often used to protect climbers from falls .
today , one out of three arizonans live in booming phoenix and tucson .
the best time to visit amritsar is between november and march when the weather is very pleasant .
in 1894 , phuket was promoted to be a monthon administrative unit under the supervision of the central administrative body ( located in bangkok .
tourism is the third most important industry , with many visitors drawn to the badlands , the international peace garden , and reservoirs that offer recreational opportunities .
forest rest houses here are deluxe bungalows and also have the dormitory option .
on a hillock to the north is the shrine of lord dattatraya , the three heads representing brahma , vishnu and maheshwara .
blue sheep restaurant , mg marg has a bunch of restaurant serving popular sikkimese dishes .
the inexpensive eating places are in taj gang , around the taj mahal .
as a result of such heroic deeds , noble titles were granted to chan and muk as thao thep krasattri and thao si sunthon respectively .
he stayed in kashmir for nearly two years , studied sanskrit and hindu scriptures at the feet of learned men here .
however , although chhang is the unofficial national drink , it is not officially available .
mount abu is the only hill station of rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the aravalli range .
we welcome you to kurukshetra , the seat of ancient indian civilization , the land where the vedas were written .
8 kms from almora is the , nestling amidst fir and pine forests .
the mughals in northern india have given to india several fascinating forts and palaces .
the main markets of jaipur , from where you can buy some useful items are along jauhari bazar , bapu bazar , nehru bazar , chaura rasta , tripolia bazar and m.i. raod .
in both villages , the residents live with their proteges , training them and putting on fascinating shows .
all manner of second-hand goods are sold here , but the place to go is the book bazaar , where second-hand books are available at unbelievably low prices .
this is the place where the british deported the freedom fighters who caused them too much trouble .
the temples of ummaneshwar and jagannath in the grounds of this palace are open to all .
sea canoe expeditions are running all year round , although the rains from june to october can inhibit operations .
another temple in bihar , india that is worth visiting during your temple tours to bihar , india is the parasnath temple .
nagaland grows a lot of pineapple and the simple and delicious pineapple stew ( pineapple cooked in sugar and water ) is a great way to end a traditional naga spread .
choose from the cosy cottages on hillsides or rooms that overlook a fort , whatever the option , the memories will be pleasant .
surakarta , better known as solo , is the cradle of javanese culture in the province .
the outline is then painted with the combination of chalk powder and gum arabica , before gold foil is used to the opulence of the painting .
the banqueting house later became the scene of king charles i 's execution .
with their elongated , twisted forms , they are reminiscent of indus valley civilization artifacts .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
a household staple , ningro chhurpi is not widely available in restaurants , but if you choose a home stay , you can usually sample it .
conveniently located near mumbai s domestic airport , the hotel is built on strictly ecological principles .
the barhut asokan rock edict ( bc 250 ) in pali written in the brahmi script is one of the most important exhibits .
the shire is famous as it contains a strand of hair of the prophet muhammad .
the maharaja also donated 100 kilos of gold for the temple , which was added on to the surface as plating , and gave the temple its name .
nakuchia tal is another lake , which deserves a mention in the pantheon of water bodies in nainital , the famous hill station in india .
river beas and its thunderous gushes are also perfect places for river rafting in certain stretches .
tea plantations are also part of munnar , which is a hill station of note in kerala india .
another great place to shop in kohima , is belho weavers , where you ll find lovely mementos and yes , shawls .
the connoisseur gave up his post around 1914 to build this vast collection of indian european scuplpures , persian carpets , chinese jade and japanase procelain .
celebrated at the end of the month of magha ( in january-february ) , magha naun festival marks the return of the gods to earth from heaven .
a famous greek philosopher , claudius ptolemy , was the first person who mentioned the cape in his book written in the year 157 .
this ancient temple is an important center of sun worship in assam , india .
if you arrive in singapore without prior hotel reservations , the sha counters at the singapore changi airport can help you with hotel bookings .
on the 23 , 000 square-metre site are five blocks of building housing and shophouses , restored to their original 19th century style .
the first motor vehicle driven directly from bangkok arrived in chiang mai in 1932 .
the chaugan is the heart and hub centre of all activities in chamba .
in 1854 , the kansas-nebraska act was passed by congress , organizing the nebraska territory .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deities lord vishnu and lord shiva .
the simplicity of the tribal people and the untamed profusion of nature make you feel like you are in a time warp .
baluchari saris come with different names in various designs ther s simple taant , light-as-feathers tangail and the intricate and rich dhakai jamdani .
the building of the akal takht was begun by guru arjan dev and completed in 1609 by guru hargobind .
as a traveler , you will have an impact on the environment and culture of the place you are visiting .
there are now new plans to house a giant shopping and leisure complex with a 32-screen cinema , inside the shell of the building , due to open in 2001 .
finished with hot jalebis , swirls of syrup-doused concoctions fried in sinful quantities of ghee .
in colonial days , the state was part of a vast region that charles i , king of england , granted to sir robert heath in 1629 .
the site india travels destinations offers you details regarding tours to historical monuments in and around kushinagar in bihar , india .
in mizoram your banking options will be far less than in the other states .
it s all waiting to be explored .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honor of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
the holy sangam is the site for annual magha mela / ardh kumbh / kumbh mela .
for those seeking peace and quiet , away from the madding crowds , there are several beautiful tibetan monasteries holding ancient treasures , japanese temples , and stunning sunrises over the snowy khangchendzonga .
the restaurant is housed in the erstwhile ballrooms of the mysore palace , with a sky high baroque ceiling with domed sky lights and white wedgwood decor .
it is already a popular honeymoon destination for the moon gazing newly weds .
the kheer bhawani temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india .
for aweek people from all walks of life , and age be damned , fly kites with abandon , creating patches of every imaginable color in the blu sky above .
swabhumi is quite an unmatched experience .
a remarkable image amongst the exhibits is a 12th century shiva parvati from khajuraho .
over the centuries , almoras has retained its preeminence as a cultural and administrative centre and an important market town for the region .
jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters .
a tome when royal patronage attracted thousands of artisans and architects to cahampaner , where they stayed to build temples water tanks , landscape gardens , and granaries to stock the bounty from each season s harvest .
enter and you will see a ghost city of palaces , temples residential precincts agricultural structures and water installation , each telling its fascinating story about a bygone era .
louisiana has been governed under 10 different flags beginning in 1541 with hernando de soto 's claim of the region for spain .
this is also the place of the famous javanese temples of borobudur .
until recently , assam was out of bounds for the traveler .
national parks & monuments include big cypress reserve , biscayne , dry tortugas , everglades , castillo de san marcos , fort matanzas .
the andaman and nicobar islands were shrouded in mystery for centuries because of their inaccessibility .
from ross hill there were excellent views of the ship building yard and the port channel , which was the entrance of the harbor for ships and liners .
shravanabelagola is a famous jain pilgrimage with a 17m high monolith of lord bahubali standing tall .
a 500 mts long ski lift carries skiers back to the slope top , thus saving them the trouble and time to bridge up wearing long skis .
ruth s and haralu emporia , dimapur , these two are special shops , and just because you find traditional handicrafts here , shawls in particular .
built by rana kumbha in mid 15th century , kumbhalgarh is the second most important bastion of mewar , after chittaurgarh .
shawl are extremely warm and woman have a way of draping them that is quite different from the way they are worn in the north. wear them your own way .
all the metal pieces of the tower are held together by rivets , a well-refined method of construction at the time the tower was constructed .
this is symbolic of the openness of sikhism and indicates that followers of all faiths are allowed inside .
the british influences are visible in all the presidency towns of mumbai , calcutta , chennai and new delhi .
there are two direct trains to / from mumbai as well as a daily train to hyderabad in neighboring andhra pradesh .
the town is built around the banks of the man made ana sagar lake .
you can find out about these at tourist centres in kohima .
bhimakali temple sarahan-history of himachal pradesh .
the main entrance to the dargah , the nizam gate is of 70 feet height , it was constructed by the nizam of hyderabad .
designed by sir william emerson , the architect of the victoria memorial in calcutta , the outstanding feature of this church is its vivid stained glass windows .
the chutia temple is an important temple site in the chotanagpur region of bihar , india .
the boat race held in the backwaters of karala is another event that just should never be missed .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is 85 kms from chennai .
due to its many wetlands and its strategic location on the north south bird migratory path , gujarat is a birder s paradise .
cochin is basically a collection of islands and narrow peninsulas and can be divided into ernakulam , willingdon island , mattancherry and fort kochi .
these andaman and nicobar islands are the paragon of beauty and present a landscape full with scenic and picturesque extravaganza .
kentucky produces more thoroughbred foals than any other state in the u .s . .
on september 18 1884 eiffel registered a patent `` for a new configuration allowing the construction of metal supports and pylons capable of exceeding a height of 300 meters .
other favourites include the seasonal strawberries with cream and ice cream and the mint chocolate fudge .
kufri is an important tourist place because of its closeness with shimla .
this hideous looking building ( though a great many people are fond of it ) has been listed and so should be safe from demolition .
colorado ranks first among all states in ski-able acres and is home to nearly 50 natural hot springs .
there is a tourist dictionary written for ordinary citizens .
close by the king built taragarh , the very first hill fort in india .
during the reign of king rama v , ubon ratchathani was annexed to lao kao town .
rendezvous is one of the better restaurant on the mall and the place to head for when you re hankering for some thai food .
the mahua tree is for chhittisgarh what potatoes are for russians .
agra is famous for handicrafts products such as inlay work on marvel , leatherwork , footwear , and brass wear , carpets , jewelry , zari and embroidery work .
this three storied prison , constructed by britishers in 1906 , is a pilgrimage destination for freedom fighters .
you can choose from an astonishing range of intricate design .
shirish and manoj samant , the brothers who own the restaurant called as adinarayan bhojanalaya , contributes to the cooking themselves , especially when the large eatery fills up .
the rajasansi airport , about 11 kms from town , is connected by domestic flights to delhi , srinagar and chandigarh .
middle mississippi indians , who succeeded the woodland indians , built large earthen mounds and developed complex urban areas .
over the years this mosque was destroyed thrice due to fire and was reconstructed again .
cascading down the cliff is a spectacular waterfall , which at the bottom feeds a natural pool called the saptakunda .
for a thick , richly flavoured and decidedly ni on vegetarian twist on humble khichdi , order a plateful of haleem , a split pea , wheat and meat concoction .
all 12 suites beautifully decorated with antique furniture , stretched linens and striking artwork are clustered around a lovely little swimming pool .
from the arched portico to the octagonal rooms with rows of windows and ventilators with tiled sun shades and antique furniture , the hotel oozes elegance .
according to historical records this ancient temple was destroyed in the 16th century and was reconstructed in the 17th century .
the tour guide , india travel destination offers a series of package tours to the enthusiasts to undertake adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference .
you will find the rich greenery of the kullu valley along with bare , brown mountains , glaciers and snowfields .
of the nearly 500 akbari buildings built in the bengal and gujarati traditions only a few have survived , arrayed in a band on the riverfront .
thailand has some of the most exciting gamefishing sites in asia especially along the andaman seacoast of phuket and krabi provinces .
kanak vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in jaipur .
all eateries of chhappan bazaar sell the most delectable pao bhaji ( with oodles of butter ) , samosas , aloo tikki and chaat , all in atypical malwa style .
in the gangtok , the restarant at the family-run hotel netuk house is a good bet .
as an expression of gratitude , akbar shifted his capital to the new city which was build between 1569 and 1585 .
from here , you can trek up to the hills , or go on excursions to the tribal villages in the vicinity .
look for tiny , picturesque villages , acquaint yourself with different people & and their lifestyle .
this old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
picnic breakfast can be arranged for the morning safari around the park .
4 km away is the built in bengali hut style architecture in 1501 , a ` shaktipeeth ( power of the female goddess .
53km to the south of agartala is the water palace , built in 1930 in the middle of rudrasagar lake .
also to be found here is the theatre museum packed full of theatrical memorabilia from the last 300 years .
the responsible form of tourism and tourism development , which encourages going back to natural products in every aspect of life , is also the key to sustainable ecological development .
bandipur tiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , presents a must grab opportunity to the travelers and journeyman to seek out nigiri hills .
sightseeing the most famous monument in aurangabad is the bibi ka maqbara , the mausoleum of mughal emperor aurangzeb s queen .
the monument itself stands on a raised platform with four minarets in the corners .
the temple is quite like a mound and according to historical records the lowest level of this temple site was constructed during the gupta rule .
where lord krishna gave the gita updesh , making action greater than the reward of though thereof .
montana 's scenic beauty and vast empty spaces have made tourism the second biggest industry .
the kullu valley begins at aut on the northern end of the gorge in the dhaula dhar , cut by the river beas at larji , above mandi .
a comfortable pair of walking shoes and a back pack / valise for the short trips to animal sanctuaries / excursions is a good idea .
kullu is also famous for its handicrafts and woolens like shawl , caps , puhla , namdas and patoos .
the state is an ideal getaway for the traveler tired of overcrowded hill stations and beaches .
i like to buy elegant mangalagiri handloom products from mangalgiri village itself , for ethnic handbags i go to the various malls and handicraft centers .
river rafting in india is carried out in varied spots of the order of kumaon .
pick up lots of brassware for your home from shops throughout moradabad , which is especially known for its coloured enamelling and intricate etchings .
the valley was again invaded by a mongal and turk invader achalla , but the queen defeated him , and drove away all the foreign troops .
india has been a bit slow into commercially exploiting its rich natural heights , waterfalls and galactic glaciers and marketing its old world bounties to the new world enthusiasts .
windsurfing has become one of thailand s most popular water sports in the last two decades , and it is practiced all over thailand s beaches .
apart from the extremely tempting menu choices there is an excellent wine list ( sensibly priced ) obviously selected by someone with knowledge .
the cuisine in it s restaurants of this regal hotel is known for being delicious and exquisitely crafted prepare for a wonderful culinary experience .
it s little fussy about testing guests stay more than two nights , so check before booking .
set in 250 acres of verdant lawns and fields , this luxurious retreat , jhira bagh palace , is ideally situated for visit to dhar fort , mandu , the bagh caves , and the temple of maheshwar and omkareshwar .
beautiful architecture , wood-panelled interiors , a large courtyard , huge trees , and water gurgling down columns-the ananda krishna van offers you a very peaceful , quite stay in madhuban .
dry , searing winds heat up the ground and make it difficult to venture outdoors .
african music was introduced during the colony 's first century and was enriched by its contact with iberian music .
the sankaragaurisvara temple is one monument that you must pay a visit during your tours to historical monuments in kashmir , india .
as you circle the town by air or come in by train at howrah station , the bridge dominates .
in some of the northern counties , hispanics constitute a large majority of the population , and in some parts of new mexico , spanish is the primary language .
the 1970 election was a turning point in colombia 's recent history .
the illumination in the evenings gives the beach an irresistible air of glamour .
the indian subcontinent perhaps had the largest network of rivers in the world .
balance also determines the value of strength by how much energy you spend actually climbing sheer rock faces , ideal for rock climbing , can be found in many areas .
taj chandigarh , sector 17 a , is undoubtedly the best stay option in the city , certainly located with some great , popular restaurants .
the rambhar stupa is an important pilgrimage site that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region .
the idol is shown to be carrying a cooking pot that signifies the fact that the deity is the goddess of sustenance and prosperity .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
soon a sizable minority of yankees grew , dominating the merchant class and entering into important positions in the political and social structure .
built of teakwood and bamboo poles , they are fascinating to see .
cochin is also famous for export of fisheries , spices , coconuts , cardamoms , tea , and rubber .
lossar is celebrated in buddhist areas throughout the state in february , but lahaul s monasteries have some of the most spectacular performances you will ever see .
in 1774 , britain passed the quebec act , making wisconsin part of the province of quebec .
also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize .
this temple was never completed but the ruins give us a definite picture of the kind of architectural skills of the medieval times .
over the centuries , the golden sand stone fortress witnessed many battles between the bhattis , the mughals and the rathors of jodhpur .
varanasi is supposedly one of the oldest indian cities and is known for its ghats and ancient temples .
the central market , sojati gate , station road , sardar market , tripollia bazaar , mochi bazaar , lakhera bazar are some of the best shopping place in jodhpur .
these marvel of carvings built between 11th and 13th century a.d. are dedicated to the jain tirthankars .
the mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of bhandeshwar & sandeshwar temples .
an enormous crazy horse memorial is being sculpted in the black hills .
shanti vana is the cremation site of jawaharlal nehru .
for over three centuries thereafter , ajmer faced turbulent times changing hands over and over again as one warlord succeeded another .
discover the beauty of non metallic ornaments in andamans .
on diwali , the festival of lights , in october / november every year a large fair is held here .
the temple of lord brahma 's first wife .
the monarch realized its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north india and also built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy sangam .
border disputes between chile and bolivia have been a recurrent element in chile 's history ever since .
the location of fatehpur sikri was also appropriate for discussions and deliberations that the emperor had with religious leaders , statesmen , writers and philosophers .
the monastery was built in the mid-1970 at durpin dara and consecrated by the dalai lama .
people shoot arrows at a picture of ravana , to signify the victory of the gods over demons .
invest some time in combing in the place and hunt for small market that hide many gems .
here , on 13th april , 1919 british troops led by general dyer fired upon a group of assembled people , including women and children .
the horse marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
khwaja saheb is the landmark of ajmer and one of the holiest of muslim shrines in the country .
uttar pradesh shares international boundaries with nepal and china and is surrounded by the indian states of himachal pradesh , haryana , rajasthan , madhya pradesh and bihar .
the chalets , is scenically located resort consists entirely of scandinavian-style log huts right next to the famous nine-hole naldehra golf course .
climbers are not oblivious to heights .
car drivers must pay toll charges on arrival and departure from the tuas checkpoint ( sgd 3.70 per trip ) but only on departure at the woodlands checkpoint ( sgd 1.20 per trip .
the hari parbat fort is located on top of a hill was the summer retreat of the mughal emperors .
as a territory of the united states , florida was particularly attractive to people from the older southern plantation areas of virginia , the carolinas , and georgia , who arrived in considerable numbers .
the daman jetty area is a hot favourite among travelers and locals seeking chaat , bhel and pau bhaji .
one of the factors that have gone in to make bangalore the fifth largest city in india today is its mild and healthy climate .
pattaya is 147 kilometers from bangkok and lies parallel to sukhumvit road on its east and the coastline on its west .
this was later changed to phatthaya , which happens to mean the wind blowing from the southwest to the northeast at the beginning of the rainy season .
pochampally the tiny village is a home to weaver who uses the ikat ( tie or dye ) method to make pochampalli saris and fabric colors and bold geometrics patterns .
and the romance heightens , as camels majestically wend their way through the golden sands .
navahos are known as a pastoral people , grazing sheep , while the pueblo , who live in pueblos scattered across the state , are largely farmers .
rose garden was set up in the year 1995 to commemorate the 100th flower show of the botanical garden .
the site india travel destinations offers you tour booking and online reservation for tours to the temples of tamil nadu in south india .
applique work , this traditional oriya handicraft comes in bold , colourful patterns , usually with flower , bird and animals motif .
the third of the gordon house is scandinavian in its minimalist decor and open spaces .
the central shiva is called unakoteshwara kal bhairava .
the eighteenth century novelist henry fielding lived in one of the houses overlooking the pond and handel is known to have composed in the area .
cordial and helpful , the tripuris also have a delicious cuisine to boast of .
khimsar experiences extreme climatic conditions with very hot summers and cold winters .
in winters , one can indulge in the winter sports like skiing and tobogganing .
surrounding the market are hundreds of shops , bars and restaurants which make the area buzz with vitality .
occupied for almost 700 years the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
the jaipur vintage car rally held annually in the month of january has become a big draw for car lovers , sports lovers , vintage beauty lovers and tourists alike .
they were a success , steadfastly lifting the tourists up to the second floor until the late eighties .
thakur onkar singh , 17th direct descendant of prince karamsi , the current owner and chief added a regal wing in the 1940 's for himself .
climb to the top of the hill , and you will be confronted by the ruins of sturdy fortress built by the rajput kings centuries ago .
eighteen rivers are prime floating spots , including america 's first national river , the pristine buffalo river .
the lingaraja temple in bhubaneshwar in orissa , india is another important tourist destination that you must not miss during your temple tours to orissa in east india .
the best time to be at bheemeshwari is , between november and february .
the third week of march every year , aurangabad dons the mantle of host and gears up for an ellora festival of music and dance .
today , most native americans live on the southern ute reservation and in the denver area .
french traders and missionaries who followed nicolet included radisson and groseilliers , marquette and joliet ( who discovered the upper mississippi ) , and aco and hennepin ( from la salle 's party .
try your hand at golf or learn a few coorgi cooking tips from rani aiyapa , known far and wide for her delicious dishes .
the panchakki is an interesting water powered flourmill built in the 17th century , an engineering masterpiece of its day .
average summer temperatures stand at around 38 c maximum and minimum temperatures of 27 c .
in 1778 british explorer captain james cook charted the washington coast and went ashore on vancouver island at nootka sound .
brindavan is an interesting place , and the sage has quite a few interesting aspects to his personalities .
not always does one stumble upon something that creates history , and that too of such magnificent proportions .
an engineer by training , eiffel founded and developed a company specializing in metal structural work , whose crowning achievement was the eiffel tower .
the most populous state of india with over 16 % the countries population ; uttar pradesh is the heartland of india .
varanasi has a huge export industry based on carpets made in the mirzapur bhadhoi belt and in silk and brocade fabrics .
vasco house sports the typical european glass paned windows and verandahs , characteristic of the times .
its name , legend says , is a variation of pharaoh 's island , but it is more likely that the name is greek in origin .
the evergreen state , washington was named by for president george washington by an eastern politician .
the hazratbal mosque an important islamic shrine that is located in the village of hazratbal that is located on the banks of the dal lake .
in 1989 , a four-ton service elevator was added ( also by otis ) helping to relieve the main elevators of excessive trips up and down .
the temples of khajuraho are brilliant example of medieval indian architecture .
other centers for metal craft include bangalore , shivarapatana , shravanbelagola and bidar .
kesar kulfi with faluda is practically synonymous with delhi .
most hotels have in house restaurants , which serve indian , chinese , thai and continental cuisine .
the lavish entertainment of their friends , ' the marlborough house set ' was legendary .
the bull temple is believed to have been constructed in the 16th century ad .
it is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments .
the construction of taj mahal was started in ad 1632 and completed at the end of 1648 ad .
chug fa s food is definitely worth more than you pay for it and enjoy sumptuous servings of soups , noodles and steaming dumplings .
today , the massive castle still stands in bodrum , and the polished stone and marble blocks of the mausoleum can be spotted within the walls of the structure .
amidst all this stunning beauty , there live more than a dozen tribes , each with its own fascinating tapestry of socio-cultural variety .
arizona was made a separate territory in 1863 , and more lands were acquired through the gadsden purchase in 1853 .
from the bird species found in the himalayas like pheasants and snow eagles to birds of prey and other avian species found in the plains like peafowl , nightingales , sparrows and owls .
haldighati is the place where the famous battle between rana pratap and the massive forces of the mughal emperor akbar was fought in 1576 ad .
bangalore is situated at an altitude of 920 metres above sea level .
there are some portraits of the rulers of jodhpur also displayed at jaswant thada .
on the small island of rhodes were three of these : ialysos , kamiros , and lindos .
hot millions one of the popular restaurant in chandigarh has defined fast food dining in chandigarh for decades .
a white marble building with intricately carved lattice screens and engravings in mother of pearl , lapis lazuli and topaz .
the four poster beds and , mosaic furniture floors , antique mirrors and attached marble baths are all part of the royal experience .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
shankara gauriswara , the temple of buniar is located on the jhelum valley road that is located at a distance of two miles near rampur .
the occasion is navaratri , which celebrates the victory of good over evil , and is a time of dancing as much as of worship .
the nargisi kofta , which is actually hard boiled egg wrapped in mincemeat and deep fried and cut lengthwise and added to gravy .
dense rain forests and canopies of luxuriant green branches host a variety of birds , insects , and all kind of life .
c ndido portinari ( 1903-1962 ) was one of the first brazilian artists to paint his way to international fame .
handicrafts in stone , metal and shell are available at this small shop known as sarjan art gallery , near the main petrol pump .
punjabis are by nature street smart business people .
americans joined the battles for florida in 1803 , following their purchase of louisiana from the french .
like ajanta , ellora has a number of magnificent masterpieces such as the kailashnatha temple .
brindavan gardens is the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors .
in 1653 the first permanent settlements were established by english colonists from virginia near the roanoke and chowan rivers .
ayutthaya became the capital of thailand before thon buri and bangkok .
western oklahoma was dominated by plains tribes , notably the kiowa , comanche and apache .
one has to take a bus for siliguri from kalimpong in order to visit this ropeway route .
manali is a small hill town in the valley of kullu .
a land blessed with pristine beaches , placid lagoons and thick green forests , orissa is also a melting pot of art , tradition and religion .
just behind the inn sits england 's oldest bowling green .
ayodhya is also famous for its close association with the epic ramayana .
a large artificial lake created in the 12th century against a beautiful backdrop of hilly terrain .
kalimpong also offers pleasant hikes and walks through rice fields and tea fields around the town .
and indeed jungle sounds will lull you to sleep in this wilderness retreat , pench jungle camp , located near pench national park , in avraghani village .
lord canning announced the transfer of power to the crown in 1858 in this city .
adding to the charms of khajjiar , which also hugs a golden-domed devi temple , is a golf course set in idyllic surroundings .
ahmedabads museums are also noteworthy the calico museum of textiles has one of the worlds finest collections of textiles , antique tapestries , wall hangings , costumes and antique looms .
above helambu is a mountain pass through the lakes of gosainkunda reaching the valley of langtang .
these incessant feuds , civil wars , risings and upheavals greatly weakened hindu domination of kashmir .
trekking , mountaineering , white water rafting , wild boar hunting , mountain and desert jeep safaris , camel and yak safaris , trout fishing and bird watching , are a few activities , which entice the adventure and nature lovers to pakistan .
a perfect combination of romance and beauty , udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters , poets and writers .
arunachal pradesh mainly consists of verdant mountainous ranges sloping to the plains of assam , and has the largest area in the north-east region .
on the hammersmith bank are a number of handsome regency houses interspersed with riverside pubs and boathouses .
this is the dram destination for anyone who wants to escape the cacophony of the clamourous city and soothe his freyed nerves and tired body .
the original palace was built by rja man singh and additions were made later by sawai jai singh .
the temple is located at a distance of 3 kilometers from chandi ghat in haridwar , uttaranchal , india .
golconda fort is situated on the western outskirts of hyderabad .
therefore we have adequately accurate knowledge of its location and appearance .
hispanics , who may be of any race but in new mexico are primarily of mexican descent , represented 42.1 percent of the state 's population in 2000 .
the sunday brunch at zafraan laguna is turning out to be the biggest draw , so plan and look well in advance if you want to sample it .
the designs , however , are , typical to this hill state .
the cochin also has an outstanding network of road , rail , backwater , and a modern communication system .
palate sensations hopes to offer students more than just culinary knowledge and skill through its classes and workshops .
upon the fall of augusta in 1779 , the government was located temporarily at head s fort in wilkes county from february 1780 , to july 1781 .
the annual desert festival takes place in january and february each year and is a riot of color and activity .
service apartments for long-term stay were unheard of in india before ahuja residency , golf links stepped in .
for bhopali nawabi cuisine at its best , try the shahnama in jehan numa palace , world heritage palace of bhopal royalty , for the yoghurt based kormas chicken nawabi and aromatic bhopali rizala , biryani and the khoya rich shahi tukra .
the kanheri caves are situated in the heart of the notional park .
there is little choice as far as eating out is concerned .
thanks to the rice bowl of champhai , rice dishes are a speciality here .
one of the oldest churches in kerala , the st mary 's church is believed to be one of the seven established by st thomas .
the temple served as both a marketplace and a religious institution .
a wedding trousseau in karnataka is usually incomplete without a sari with kasuti , while the emphasis is usually on the elaborately decorated pallu .
hill stations in india , usually nestled amidst the hills and mountain ranges in the northern and the southern portion of the country , abound in large numbers .
the icy heights of the himalayas are the source of some of india 's mighty rivers .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
chail is an ideal getaway for fresh and tranquil environment in the lap of the nature .
one of the largest of its kind in bangalore , rejuve the spa is embellished with beautiful gardens .
of ayurveda 's many methods , using herbs , oils and medicinal plants , the kerala ayuraveda massage has gained international repute .
the two explorers , instructed to take special note of the geography and vegetation of the west , traveled down the columbia river and reached the pacific coast in 1805 .
then mount abu amongst the hill stations in india is also blessed with the historically important delwara temples and other archeological remains of note .
lingti is the one of the longest and largest valley of the spiti .
the andaman & nicobar are a group of picturesque islands , big and small , inhabited and uninhabited , a total of 572 islands , islets and rocks lying in the south eastern part of the bay of bengal .
economy besides tourism , agra has also grown into an important centre for handicrafts and small industries .
other places like flora fountain , bombay natural history museum , hanging gardens , gateway of india are good places of tourism .
agra is also well known for petha , dalmoth and gajak .
on one side is st james 's park , leading to the horse guard 's parade ground .
originally called sudarshan garh , nahargarh offers a breathtaking view of jaipur .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree covered hills .
all small restaurants make excellent nagamese food , a winning combination of naga and assamese cuisine .
motorcycle and bicycle safaris can also be done in every part of rajasthan .
alwar has one of the finest wild life sanctuaries in rajasthan sariska , which is an excellent tiger country .
in order to promote tourism in the north-east region , the governmant of india has decided to allow foreign tourists to visit nagaland .
the people of central java will welcome all of the tourists with hospitable and friendly .
located at the eastern end of zhongshi jie , fuan bridge was built in 1355 during the yuan dynasty .
although bolivia has entered an unprecedented era of political stability , it follows a record of 192 coups in the 156 years from independence to 1981 .
agartala agartala , the capital city of tripura , lies barely 2 km from the bangladesh border and 3 hours by road from dacca .
with a terrain that shifts from hill roads to forest tracks , desert trails to beach routes , india tests the mettle of both man and machine in motor rallies .
the anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by raja anaji sometime in the 1150 a.d. .
legend has it that akbar , who had no son , went to the sufi saint sheikh salim chishti to seek his blessings .
a heritage hotel will cost more than a deluxe while rtdc provides decent , clean accommodation at reasonable prices albeit with few frills .
uttarakhand is where india goes to get away from it all .
shopaholics should give nature s bounty a royal ignore , and head straight to the luangmual handicrafts centre .
the town was originally known as ban samoe rieng , or ban laem hin ( stony point village .
hauz khas village , near green park , is a great place to while away a sunny winter afternoon .
for routes inside the inner line , the local district magistrate 's permission , or that of the central home ministry is necessary .
himachal is heaven for the nature lover , with an abundance of sanctuaries , parks , game reserves , oak , cedar and rhododendron forests , and stretches of apple orchards .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
the island may be tiny but it is generously lined with golden beaches and delightful portuguese architecture .
thrissur the cultural capital of kerala , is dominated by the vadakkunath temple .
as there are different idd service providers in singapore , rates and access codes are dependent on the service provider used by hotel .
among the almost 200 varieties , the meat pickles are especially delicious .
in the garden city you can visit the lal bagh with a variety of old trees , fountains , lotus pools , terraces and an assortment of tropical and sub-tropical herbs .
however , the windfall was largely squandered and ecuador has suffered persistent economic difficulties ever since .
awadhi cuisine is replete with various varieties of kebabs , and the tunde ke kebabs are arguable the most delicious .
brazilian folk dance and folk drama are rich forms of popular artistic expression .
it had the status of a union territory after independence till it was granted statehood in 1971 .
east java province consists of various communities such as javanese and maduranese with their culture , tradition and customs .
in a quaint village amazing chicken curry , exotic herbs and home ground masalas made it one the most divine experience .
alabama s piney woods and grand old oak and magnolia trees range east to west from georgia to mississippi , north to south from tennessee to florida .
varkala beach is also a key hindu pilgrim centre with the ancient shree janardhan swamy temple .
agra has good rail and bus connections with major indian cities .
all five coastal provinces , encompassing 640km ( 398 miles ) of coastline between them , have attractive beaches and plenty of hotels and resorts for tourists .
hyderabad is also famous for pearls and pearl jewellery .
it is widely thought that buchan dreamt up the idea of using 39 steps at a time when he was recovering from illness in a convalescent home .
all meals are vegetarian , sumptuously prepared , and area served buffer style in the communal dining areas .
this temple site is an important tourist destination and you must visit this temple during your temple tours to kolkata , india .
again in 1987 , the succeeding prime minister rajiv gandhi ordered yet another campaign called operation black thunder to cleanse the complex of militants .
there are about 100 holy shrines located inside this huge temple .
the french inhabitants of louisiana constitute a unique element in the state 's population .
vancouver named many washington landmarks , including mount rainier , mount baker , and many of the san juan islands .
the chandigarh international film festival to be held in january 2008 is likely to showcase films from france , hungary , finland and israel , apart from hindi movies .
the araucanian indians were the original inhabitants of chile .
of these four temples the luna vashi and vimal vashi temples are the most important .
pine and peak hotel is the perfect choice to enjoy the stunning scenery and leisure activities that pahalgam affords , the hotel will arrange for fishing and golfing closeby .
the first settlements were made at pembina in 1812 by scottish and irish families ( the red river settlement .
on hunting expeditions , people usually come back with rabbits , deer , wild boars and pigeons , well , a certain captain john smith came back with a piece of history .
inland waterway is one of the most popular picnic spots in alappuzha .
buddhist art has its origins in india .
there is , firstly , the pleasure of a gentle canoe trip in a lightweight alloy metal craft , which holds two to three people .
if you are interested in buying rosewood carvings , with details etchings of flowers or animals , it s best to visit madurai .
foreign tourists need a special permit to visit the andaman islands .
this ancient temple is situated on an island on the river narmada .
the main shopping area is the sadar bazaar , besides kinari bazar , gwalior road , mahatma gandhi road and pratap pura .
direct buses from guwahati ( 25 hours ) and silchar ( 12 hours ) ply regularly .
when you are in state that is and dotted with temples and intrinsically spiritual , encountering carved idols of gods and goddess in stone naturally abounds .
nothing chilly about its warm and welcoming people , whose hospitality knows no bounds .
if you re around for breakfast , drop in for its simple , filling and absolutely yummy muesli and fruit yoghurt .
arrestingly fashioned into elephants , horses , deer , masks and human figures by the hot wax casting technique known as dhokra , the metal artifacts of baster are recognized the world over .
squeezed in between tibet and nepal with china breathing down its neck , sikkim is known for the unspoilt magnificence of its mountains and the warmth of its people .
originally built in mud by kempe gowda in 1537 , the fort was extended and fortified by tipu sultan .
the dui fort also houses some antique cannons , sturdy walls , gateways , arches , bastions and a lighthouse .
sailfish , black , marlin , wahoo and tunas make this , along with excellent snorkeling , a good choice for the novice and experienced angler alike .
dancers gyrate , the music beats and the summer temperature rises .
today it is reinvented as a heritage hotel , pricey and exclusive .
the park entrance fee is 200 baht per person with an additional fee of 20 baht per person for camping on the island .
the smells of katra kathian announce its wares before you reach the shops selling papads , warian , murabbas ( indian jams ) , pickles and aampapad ( dried mango candies .
the gompa is worth a visit for its impressive wall paintings in the prayer room , and a rare three-dimensional mandala upstairs .
camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between india and china , when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels .
the temple complex throbs with music and dance during the nanda devi festival in august .
the collected items in the museum could be far better classified because a lot of the really good pieces of art need to be hunted for .
the route through manang circles the annapurna back to the kathmandu-pokhara highway .
rajasthan state transport corporation ( rstc ) has bus services to all the major destinations of north india .
however , its true beauty lies in the architectural and artistic details which will forever remain unknown .
it is believed that this stupa is the exact site where lord buddha was cremated and it is also believed that all his relics were divided into eight parts .
chiang mai literally means new city and has retained the name despite having celebrated its 700th anniversary in 1996 .
the crystal package works on the belief that the earts s energies are absorbed by the gem stones and that have vital healing powers .
allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city .
the government of india office has more information on other destinations as well .
it is noted for zhouzhuang s profound cultural background , the well preserved ancient residential houses , the elegant watery views and the strong local colored traditions and customs .
in the early fifteenth century , the knights of st john of malta invaded the region and built a massive crusader castle .
buy these nicobari mats in the company of a local , preferably your guide , who can help you strike a good deal .
it is believed that the pagoda contains buddha relics .
in the background of the show there are gazals by jagjit singh and the narrator is none other than amitabh bachchan .
it lays in the same complex as a memorial to the sufi saint baba shah muzaffar , aurangzeb s spiritual guide .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
miramar also deserve a mentions eat at its restaurant set on a promontory jutting to the sea and you will make yourself a memory for a lifetime .
a romantic gateway , the daman ganga valley resort , silvassa offers plush rooms , and a roman style decor .
try the kaleji fry and dal at any of these , especially on cold winter evenings .
the state bank of india or the bank of baroda , city branch in ajmer will exchange money and cash traveler s cheques .
the water channels crisscrossing the garden used to be full of colorful fish of various species .
it was only in 1961 that the fort of diu was attacked by the indian army , who took over the diu from portuguese inhabitants .
if you plan to drive yourself , then make sure you have a valid driving license and ensure the car insurance is covered .
after the civil war many blacks were unable to survive as farmers and moved to northern cities .
cities of andhra pradesh have interesting examples of european architecture as well as domestic vernacular architecture .
brahma also referred the allahabad as ` tirth raj or the ` king of all pilgrimage centres .
the legs of the throne were decorated with sphinxes and winged figures of victory .
the ayurvedic spas in kerala are , perhaps most authentic in the country .
beachcombing takes on a new meaning for shoppers in this seaside town daman .
the originally sakley s swiss confectionery was famous for its delectable chocolates , cakes and pastries .
in the hilly areas there are rolling tea gardens , areca nut plantations .
dry and very cold , lahaul plateau it is surrounded by high mountain on all sides , the great himalayan in the north .
akbar was an astute ruler , who encouraged interaction with his hindu subjects and neighboring chieftains .
the highest elevation is guadalupe peak in culberson county at 8 , 749 feet while the lowest elevation is the gulf of mexico at sea level .
the near the bus stand is a repository of kumaoni art , culture and history .
the windows in the tearooms are designed to catch the afternoon sun and frame the view down into the valley .
in fact brahma temple is said to be one of the few brahma temples in india .
the flesh of the kadaknath chicken is jet black which doesn t look very appetizing , but cooked in a simple curry , it is quite delicious .
and when the temple was again destroyed by the goths in ad 262 , the ephesians vowed to rebuild .
climate ajmer has a typical desert type climate with hot summers and cold winters and a sharp difference in day and night temperatures in both summer and winter .
today it 's a teeming metropolis , commercial hub of an old civilization seeking to find .
taj appears as if it is about to rise into the sky .
a vision in white drenched in romance and beauty , udaipur is a fascinating blend of sights sounds and experience-an inspiration for the imagination of poets , painters and written .
blacks are still a majority in parts of rural south carolina , although many blacks have moved to urban areas .
at the bay view restaurant you can sample scrumptious lobsters , prawns and other seafood specialties .
this state has a rich cultural heritage and has also been mentioned in the ancient indian scriptures as pragjyotisa .
soon enough , prince jahangir was born to his hindu wife jodha bai .
english colonists , sent by sir walter raleigh , unsuccessfully attempted to settle roanoke island in 1585 and 1587 .
it is set in peaceful green surroundings , and the lam nehru park , known for its aviary and orchid centre , is right next door .
this magnificent monument is set around a charbagh or four garden plan , which is split by watercourses a reflection of the persian style .
the province covers some 6 , 596 square kilometres and is divided into 9 amphoes : muang sukhothai , ban dan lan hoi , khiri mat , kong krailat , sawankhalok , si nakhon , si samrong , si satchanalai and thung saliam .
nowadays , i don t get enough time to do what i like best revisiting the monuments of karnataka .
during british rule mount abu became the favorite summer destination of the british .
bagnath temple , bageshwar gets its name form this ancient temple of lord shiva set in the heart of the town .
the old city , also known as the pink city , is a wonderful place to wander around .
even night can not stop the kite flying craze , because as soon as sun sets , illuminates box kites dot the night sky .
the important festivals of ooty are thaipoosam in elk hill murugan temple , bookkapuram mariamman annual festival , ooty mariamman temple festival , coonoor mariamman temple festival , boat races and boat pageantry in ooty , flower show in ooty and fruit show in coonoor .
men should wear formal cotton shirts with a tie and trousers if the weather is warm otherwise a business suit is appropriate .
the rooftop lounge casa baga offers some great views and you can party the night away at the hip congo .
don t miss local desserts such as moong halwa , thick rabri , mawa bati or churma .
centuries of a thriving urban culture based on international maritime trade has meant that the cities you visit today have absorbed greek , arab , and roman , chinese , portuguese , dutch and british influences .
ayodhya is pre-eminently a city of temples yet , all places of worship here are not only of hindu religion .
protests and demonstrations were being organized by people against the rowlett act that allowed the british to imprison anybody without explanation .
foreigners may trek anywhere in open zone without a permit or services of a licensed mountain guide .
the assembly of the supports began on july 1 , 1887 and was completed twenty-two months later .
the venerable old banyan tree , supposedly indestructible , sits in a protected space within the temple .
ooty is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
thalang took over 30 days for the defending troops of phuket , under the command of chan and muk , to claim their victory .
the kumari amman temple in kanyakumari in tamil nadu , india is one of the most important temple sites in south india .
quite obviously , hydrabadi biryani tops my list of favorites , but close contenders are golconda hotel s chapala pulusu and chicken 65 .
adjacent to the snake park is a children 's park which has a large playing ground and collection of birds and animals .
straddling the equator in western south america , ecuador has territories in both the northern and the southern hemispheres .
the whole city was painted pink by maharaja man singh ii when prince of wales , later edward vii , visited jaipur in 1876 .
the fort is occupied by the indian army and therefore much of its lies out of bounds to the public .
arunachal pradesh means the `` land of the dawn lit mountains `` and lives up to its name .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
the water works , including the hanging gardens and the lakes were also built at this time .
everyday , half of mumbai 's population commutes from far-flung suburbs to downtown offices , banks , factories and mills for a living .
the city has beautiful palaces , gardens , hills , temples and lakes , which fascinate visitors with their perfection .
mysore was the political capital of the wodeyar dynasty which ruled the state of karnataka for some 150 years till the independence of the country from the british .
earlier this year , tata coffee entered the hospitality sector with a cluster of holiday homes colonial plantation bungalows around coorg .
dip them into the traditional black chutney made of sesame , dry bamboo shoots , bitter gourd , naga basil leaves and chilly powder .
the restaurant faces the planter s club and under its awning , you will find people gathering to feast all day , sometimes starting from dawn .
the village haats spring up at any time and are the best places to buy tribal artifacts such as combs , horn work , jewellery and wood carvings .
wat khlong thom museum exhibits various artifacts discovered during excavations of an area called `` khuan luk pat `` or a bead mound behind wat khlong thom .
lyon 's range stock exchange , behind clive street , is worth a visit for a glimpse of the frenzied dealing in shares , periodically erupting onto the street .
bangaram island situated in the bay of bengal , the andaman and nicobar islands are still largely undiscovered by mass tourism .
consisting of the twin cities of hyderabad and secunderabad , hyderabad is also the capital of the state of andhra pradesh .
the official line , from the head of public information at the palace is that the clock tower is simply called the clock tower .
the crow hunted the lush grasslands of northeastern wyoming until they were pushed westward into the mountains by the sioux .
vep fees are charged at sgd 20 per day , monday to friday ( from 0200 hrs to 1700 hrs .
the city is also linked to muscat , london and new york .
dharamshala was founded and developed by the british in 1855 as their summer resort .
bhairava basically refers to the hindu deity lord shiva .
the tourist complex ( phone 05619 2490 ) offers clean and affordable accommodation with reasonable food .
it was gokul that lord krishna was brought up in secrecy by yashoda , in the pastoral beauty of this village on the banks of the yamuna .
besides the ajmer sharif dargah , there are many other important historical and religious sites .
the low land plains are found alongside the northern beaches .
the best time to visit bharatpur is during the months of october , november , february and march .
it is set in the midst of lush bamboo forests , near thenzawl ( 142 km from aizawl .
no description of orissa is complete without a mention of odissi , the classical dance form that has given many a maestro to this state .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
today janakpur stands as the most cleanest and interesting place among all the towns of terai .
tournaments are especially popular during the calm season between september and mat when contenders reel in record catches of sailfish , marlin , wahoo and barracuda .
after the decline of the mughals , control of ajmer passed into the hands of the new power brokers , the marathas , particularly the scindias of gwalior .
in front of the church 's terraced stairs , in six small devotional chapels , he created the stations of the cross with 66 poignant statues in cedar wood .
tirupati is one of the most important and among the richest temples of south india .
women , who participate in garba , balance a decorated pot on their heads and dances to the songs sung by fellow women to the beat of a dholak .
cold nights and warm sunny days characterize winter months with average highs of 23 c and minimum temperatures of 5 / 4 c .
robert delaunay gave it cubist facets in a whole series of canvases started in 1910 .
the mall or the shopping center , which includes a row of bargain and negotiable price shops , is geared up throughout the year for the customers .
the tribal people travelled free as part of the contract agreed upon when they allowed the british to build the railway through their territory .
the road to the sangam is lined with stalls selling various religious paraphernalia , including flowers , vermilion powder , coconuts and other offerings .
about 150 km south of aizawl , thinzawl is another good place to shop .
the palanquin is set with precious stones and has silver poles and a gold canopy .
the temple has a small sanctum where the idol of the main deity is kept .
ayurvedic treatment and massages are offered at the kairali massage centre .
down in the south marine life and the eastern ghats the communion with nature is in the nilgiri ranges having its own unique appeal .
the potent brew is traditionally sipped through a bamboo container called a tongba .
on top of a hill in sndar nagar and visited by thousands of devotees every year , is the sukhdev vatika and temple of mahamaya .
the spanish conquered the country in the 16th century and ruled until the country 's independence in 1818 .
the bare minimum is just under $ 18 a day while a top end holiday could blow through the roof .
adjoining tipu 's summer palace is the venkataramanaswamy temple , a 300-year old temple built by the wodeyars and still in very good condition .
rajasthan is the most colorful region in india exhibiting splendor and royalty in every walk of life .
it neighbors the mudumalai national park in tamil nadu and wynaad in kerala .
for all you know , you could discover the sea tunnel that , legends has it , connects it to land .
the hill station is well known for its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery .
treat yourself to a luxurious stay at the tripura castle , known for being the first heritage hotel in the north east .
strabo was right , except that the sculptor is to be commended , not criticized .
lying in sylvan solitude this sacred place is situated on the bank of river niranjana ( modern falgu .
september to march is the best season to visit udaipur .
when the colossus was finished , it stood about 33 m ( 110 ft ) high .
even the elevators are done up in leather while each floor has it s won theme , the hotel also boasts of i-bar , bangalore s first lounge bar .
people interested for lonesome walks can opt for a visit to jakhoo hill .
the golden temple and surrounding bazaars along narrow alleys , is encircled by a ring road .
by road it takes 3 hours to drive from dacca , the capital of bangladesh , to agartala .
traipse through jail road , bazaar for everything from orchids to mounted butterflies .
a full range of accommodations from super deluxe hotels to bungalows and mini-pocket guesthouses replaced fishermen s huts along the beach .
port blair is connected to calcutta and chennai by alliance air .
rains from june to september often disrupt life and vital communications .
sikkim , a unique hill station among other hill stations in india is remote due to its far-flung location .
originally john nash built it as a gateway for buckingham palace , but the great architect got it wrong and made it too small for the royal coaches .
by 1920 , illinois was counted among the foremost states in nearly every significant growth variable coal mining , industry , farming , urbanization , transportation , and wholesaling .
like many other provinces , the kingdom of caria in the western part of asia minor ( turkey ) was so far from the persian capital that it was practically autonomous .
originally built in 1910 , the spacious rooms at the grand palace two storey hotel look out on hoary chinars and beautiful gardens .
bara bazaar is the main shopping centre of aizawl , where all handicraft and handloom items are available .
the road is in very good condition at the moment .
the mughal emperor akbar is said to have donated the land around the temple after paying off the local jat farmers .
the forest lodge and tiger camp provide sumptuous meals , clean comfortable bed and bath and an ambience that matches the wilderness .
it also has a green house with a collection of various kinds of flora .
the nat west tower was previously the head office of a british bank and is now the international financial centre .
it is a well known 9 day feast held every year in the month of may .
the lodge at pangot provides great comfort after a good days riding .
by road a good national and state highway network links ajmer to other parts of rajasthan and many important destinations in india .
many professionals have been involved in formulating and developing eco-tourism policies .
the mata kunwar shrine is an important buddhist pilgrimage that houses a 10th century blue schist image of lord buddha .
there is a good restaurant in motel , marble rocks something of a rarity in this area .
all rivers in surat thani flow east of the province to the gulf of thailand .
most of the state stands on the high deccan plateau which stretches east some 800 km. from the western ghats .
the sewa or the self employed women 's association offers hand printed fabrics and other textiles made by women s cooperatives .
the number of birds and butterflies is of the order of 500 and the orchids stand at a healthy number of 450 .
the western ghats have mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
the best time to be here is december when the taramati music festival is on .
usually held on the premises of a popular hotel , bhojan food festival will allow you to sample treats like dalma and ghanta .
the fish is fried separately , and then fried again with rice-absolutely sinful .
the period between the decline of the mughal dynasty and the insurgence of the british imperial rule , polo almost vanished from the mainland india .
around & about by air flights from calcutta , silchar and guwahati connect aizawl six days a week .
the base of the stupa has a square and has a flight of steps on each side .
take a drive on the misty and magical kohima-imphal road for a glimpse of true beauty .
agriculture is the main occupation of the people of arunachal pradesh .
famous for the million year old fossils , the wood fossil park is a geological landmark of the thar desert , jaisalmer .
the final chapter in the history of the lighthouse came in ad 1480 when the egyptian mamelouk sultan , qaitbay , decided to fortify alexandria 's defense .
early reconstructions such as the one by von erlach are now believed to be rather inaccurate .
there has been a church or abbey on this spot since saxon times and below the church can be seen a section of floor from a roman house .
not many people know the bhadarwah valley , which is a must visit in jammu .
cherai beach ( 45 km from ernakulam city ) , bordering vypeen island , is alluring for its thick coconut groves and quaint chinese fishing nets on the waterfront .
the guru ram das and guru nanak hostels on one side of the complex offer free accommodation up to three nights for visitors .
windamere s decor follows traditional colonial style and , it s new wing , little windamere has modern facilities and decor .
the pieces were hauled up by steam cranes , which themselves climbed up the tower as they went along using the runners to be used for the tower 's lifts .
the thalis are among the most enjoyable choices , apart from the manglore fish curry and lasooni malai tikka .
some of the sculptures survived and are today on display at the british museum in london .
arkansas 's widely varied landscapes are home to a history rich in intriguing subplots .
greek gods and mythical figures also adorned the scene : apollo , artemis , and niobe 's children .
prayag is one of the historic & mythological cities of india with glorious past and present .
the dupattas , cotton saris and other fabrics woven by bastar s artisans are distinguished by their blod tribal motifs in natural dyes .
kuchipudi , the classical dance originating from the state has vigorous choreography and is somewhat akin to bharatanatyam .
the beauty of kerala can not be just written or explained , it has to be experienced .
always a tourist favorite , the city cochin offers visitors plenty .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
this little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world .
the banqueting house is the only remaining complete building of whitehall palace , the sovereign 's principal residence from 1530 until 1698 when it was destroyed by fire .
in mandi there are a couple of lakes to be visited .
from tourist village you can hear the sounds of the wildlife and birds of the madhav national park and the splash of crocodiles as they swim in the lake .
rallies were shortened to 750 kilometers as long as they were part of the national championship and that made competition very tight .
run by the descendants of beghum of bhopal , few other hotels can match its standard of hospitality .
five km away at kadiroor is suryanarayan temple , its initial structure dating back to the 13th century .
the mansa devi temple is an ancient temple that is situated on a hill close to the main city of haridwar , uttaranchal , india .
in nainital district , sat tal , bhim tal , and naukuchiyatal also have water sport & boating facilities .
heirlooms belonging to the tsechu tharpa family still decorate the four huge rooms .
the areas open to the public are the , an underground temple believed to have been visited by rama , the hero of ramayana and an incarnation of lord vishnu .
it has a status comparable to that of a municipality and is administered separately by the mayor of pattaya city , who is responsible for making policies , organizing public services , and supervising all employees of pattaya city administration .
run by the same management as the japfr ashok in kohima , the saramati is known for its exceptional pork dishes .
houses with pink latticed windows line the streets , and look almost magical at sunset .
the rest of the year , the entertainment scene is fairly humdrum with little on except movies at the local cinema houses .
later , after the transfer of the capital , the building was used as a county courthouse and finally was destroyed .
ancient yet modern , fabulously rich yet achingly poor , mumbai is india in microcosm .
the extensive ruins of his capital city parihaspur , speak of his activities in the field of art and architecture .
french trappers and explorers may have reached the area in the middle to late 18th century .
the kail and gori rivers meet at jauljibi where the water volume increases .
yellow river runs through nine provinces and autonomous regions on its way to the bohai sea .
getting around local buses , taxis , auto rickshaws and horse drawn tangas fulfill the visitors getting around needs .
a city of yesteryears today lost in the mists of time .
parasailing in india is a faction of adventure tourism in india , which can be called as tourism with a difference .
about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horse shoe .
the meeting point is known as triveni and is especially sacred to hindus .
in the old city of bhopal , the aroma of kebabs barbecued every evening wafts through the narrow bustling galis .
it was named after its patron goddess shyamla devi , an incarnation of the goddesses kali .
the northern side of the dargah has a langar khana , where food is cooked and distributed amongst the poor and needy twice everyday .
kerala is closer to public conscience as a land of sleepy backwaters and sunlit horizons with boats fading out in the distance to quarters accessible only to the famed boatmen .
surrounded by high mountain ranges , the city of chiang mai covers an area of approximately 20 , 107 square kilometers and is the country 's second largest province .
mysore is just 139 kms by road from bangalore .
there is also a fine collection of sculpture and armory in the museum .
choose from household decors and utility goods , perfumes , and chocolates from portuguese market .
it was under a tree in the garden that keats wrote ode to a nightingale .
a veritable showpiece of nature with its un spoilt scenic beauty manali can be made the headquarters of mountain .
forts , palaces , museums , old churches , cool backwaters , palm fringed lagoons , beaches and the practicality of a contemporary metro .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
i also love the ragi roti at janpadaloka kamath in ramnagaram .
change money at authorized moneychangers only .
with two outlets in the exclusive khan market and another in east of kailash , the big chill holds tremendous appeal .
power boats are also available for charter for deep-sea fishing expedition out of the andaman sea resorts of phuket and krabi .
available directly from artisans in kantilo and balakati , in puri district , and widely available in cuttack and sambalpur districts .
the trek passes through a varied landscape ranging from evergreen forests , cascading waterfalls and turbulent streams to sub-alpine grasslands and stark , beautiful mountainsides .
the local dishes are usually served on a fresh green , banana leaf , which adds to the wholesome , hearty meal .
elephant safaris are exciting for those in search of an experience of a lifetime .
capital city of bihar , it is an important business centre of eastern india .
sing-ju , this strange concoction is a popular snack in manipur .
ganga is a superb river for inflatable rafts .
by train amritsar is connected by direct trains to major indian cities like delhi , jammu , mumbai , nagpur , calcutta and puri .
the best excursion site , desert national park is famous for the black buck , chinkara , desert fox and the great indian bustard .
idaho variously belonged to the oregon territory , washington territory before it became a state in 1890 .
when not away , the queen and prince philip spend most weekends at windsor castle , where they enjoy horse riding .
antarctica is welcoming more tourist-orientated cruises and ferries to the region every year , and facilities are continually developing , with more accommodation , culinary and travel options available .
pick them up in various patterns and sizes depending on what you are looking for .
situated at a height of 1 , 800ft , judge s court heritage resort is the best visited in winter .
la piazza is arguably the best italian fine dinning eatery in the capital .
the heavily embroidered zardosi saris and dresses will make heads turn , even though most of them are very dressy .
the highlands is comprised of the andean foothills which slowly descend towards the amazon river basin .
however , one loud slurp of the creamy chai is worth all the discomfort .
the stylish restaurant , bistro and banyan tree also offer excellent food , coupled with well stocked bars .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
so , apart from the hilly terrain , deep gorges and idyllic landscape , what mizoram has to offer you is complete peace of mind .
the state bank of india will change your money and encash travelers cheques .
the subways below marble arch are also a favorite pitch for beggars .
one of the biggest names is rathna stores in pondy bazaar , a sprawling departmental store stacked with rows of utensils that almost touch the ceiling .
for taj mahal the chief building material , the white marble was brought from the quarries of makrana , in distt.nagaur , rajasthan .
needless to say , champaner-pavagarh is like no other in the way it encapsulates the triumphs and glories , trials and tribulations of a succession of centuries .
the mutton pieces are actually wrapped in gold leaf and served on a bed of thick gravy .
the simple sandstone tomb completed in 1622 lies next to that of khusraus mother s double storeyed burial chamber .
the story so far after its creation in 1411 , the city went through successive periods of glory and decline .
the nearest railhead is at sawantwadi , 30 km away .
afterwards the government forced most of the remaining dakota to leave minnesota .
uribe immediately declared a partial state of emergency , allowing him to impose security measures by decree .
the festival also draw kite flying enthusiasts from around the world , who bring their own distinctive kites with them and add to the vibrancy of the festival .
get lovely gift items or just explore the town by visiting the market .
rio is the hottest of destinations , particularly around carnival time .
portions of what is now wyoming were at one time claimed by spain , france , and england , though none of them established much of a presence there .
mighty ranges of the hindukush , the karakoram and black mountains , gentle slopes , placid plains , torrential streams malam jabba offers unlimited sights to behold .
if you are really interested in the animals , you must avoid the weekends when hordes of visitors come down from nearby cities for the day .
bangalore meets the season 's expectations , which means , it is warm in the summer , chilly in winter and the monsoons visit regularly .
the idol of lord tirloknath is bathed in milk and yougurt .
there are highways and rail roads connecting different districts in ubon ratchathani with other provinces and there is one international airport located in muang district .
it was painstakingly dismantled and then reconstructed in the arizona desert where it still stands , and carries six lanes of traffic .
post independence , many british families with strong emotional ties to the place stayed back and almora became their home away from home .
passengers arriving at tribhuvan international airport ( tia ) without any dutiable goods can proceed through the green channel for quick clearance without a baggage check .
chamba has preserved the ancient culture and heritage and chamba is known for the elegence of its temples and handicrafts .
with an aerobics centre , yoga and meditation rooms , squash and tennis courts ; there are plenty of fitness options at angsana oasis resort and spa .
if you re looking for something really special , consol s is just the place for you .
srirangapatna s fort bears witness to the tiger of mysore 's last battle against the british .
if you want some spicier stuff then go for sawchiar , a turmeric-laced chicken-and-rice preparation .
this impressive collonaded building houses the two houses of parliament .
legend has it that a gifted sculptor carved one less than a crore ( ten million ) images overnight , hence the name ' unakoti ( `` koti `` meaning crore .
the tradition established by debret and his colleagues was so strong that neoclassicism and participation in academies ruled brazilian visual arts well into the republican era .
the indians who lived in arkansas included the folsom people , bluff dwellers , mound builders , caddos , quapaws , osage , choctaw and cherokee .
the kullu valley is also known as the valley of the gods .
nothing is exciting about maussollos life except the construction of his tomb .
the jakhu temple is one of the most favoured spots for tourists apart from pilgrims .
rich cultural relics , history and gorgeous natural sceneries make the yellow river a fine place to visit .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
madura island , famous for its bull races , is part of the province of east java , though it has its own traditions and language .
the largest number of people of foreign heritage in minnesota are germans , who are found mostly in the southern and central portions of the state .
maharashtra 's many inland and coastal forts are a legacy of shivaji and , to a lesser extent , the portuguese .
the bull temple has been built by kempegowda .
wandering around sangolda , set in a sprawling old goan home , is a real pleasure .
there are more than 100 savings and agricultural cooperatives in the province , 35 irrigation projects and 7 , 122 industrial factories in khorat .
head to ambala cantonment area for the best bagh dupattas and dresses and you can also try the state emporium in delhi .
tourist places like birla mandir , charminar , golconda fort , salnejung museum are found here .
significant historic moments of the past 2000 years are depicted through life size figures .
a fascinating escape where tourists , holiday makers and vacationers from around the world unfold an incomparable array of possibilities to unwind during an exotic holiday beach vacation .
new jalpaiguri ( 77 kms away ) is the nearest mainline rail station for kalimpong .
the ornate cottages are surrounded by rustling coconut trees and well kept gardens in kumarakom lake resort .
punnami taramati is a cultural complex with an amphitheater , rehearsal rooms , food courts , and 24 rooms and six suites , it s an inspired place of architecture .
the agra fort is auricular in shape and its colossal double walls rise 20 m in height and measure 2. 5 m in circumference .
the festival of lohri , also known as maghi , is celebrated in most areas of himachal in the mid-winter season and commemorates the last sowing of the rabi crop .
built during his years in aurangabad were such architectural gems as the bibi ka maqbara , a mausoleum with a marked resemblance to the taj mahal and a medieval watermill .
following the black hawk war , the sauk and fox indians were forced to make their first land cessions west of the mississippi .
florida has a semi-tropical climate ideally suited for outdoor activities .
there are small hotels in hampi that i find very charming while the bandipur wildlife resort is also another favorite , what with the dence forests as a backdrop .
farukkabad is full of shops selling lovely handprints , with traditional motifs like buti and the tree of life .
the most gorgeous examples of the shining zardozi embroidery are found in agra .
a restored white and blue portuguese villa with shady balconies all around it , casa goa is the place to go for antique furniture , paintings and sculpture .
indian airlines and jet airways have convenient connections to cochin from delhi , mumbai as well as other important south indian cities .
chandni chowk was the pulse of mughal delhi s commercial life and was designed by jahanara begum , the favourite daughter of shah jahan in 1648 .
go fishing at hiranya keshi , picnic at nagatta falls , mahadev gad and narayan gad , sightseeing at the bauxite mines , sea view and shirgaonkar .
the region around bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations , the two notable ones being shivaganga ( 4599 ft. high ) and savandurga .
about 35 km from hyderabad , the drive to pragati takes over an hour .
he married the hindu princess of jaipur , and her brother raja man singh became one of his trusted lieutenants .
an enchanting backwater destination , kumarakom offers visitors many other leisure options .
in garhwal region the sacred river ganga offers the professional as well as the amateur the exhilaration of white water rafting .
this is also the best place to shop for the saris .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
akhara bazaar is a great place to pick up colourful kullu shawls and caps .
the khatris and aroras established their businesses and the town grew around its central nucleus .
located to the south of the twin bridges , zhang house has more than 70 rooms and takes up about 1 , 800 square meters ( less than half an acre .
the guru refused , and was tortured and killed by salim , who had then become the ruler , emperor jahangir .
depending on the season , try mango , figs , sapota or sharifa flavors , you can t eat just one .
on the street winding past the moti masjid are keema samosas and seekh kebabs in a makeshift barbecue .
the diwaniaam is where the public could have an audience with the emperor .
india offers a wide range of adventure sports for tourists .
another interesting historical site in orissa that you must pay a visit to while on temple tours to orissa is the mukteswara temple in bhubaneshwar , orissa , india .
these were tens of life-size as well as under and over life-size free-standing statues of people , lions , horses , and other animals .
one can enjoy a pleasure ride on road flanked by green tea beds on either side .
the infinite wonders of iguassu can not be described in words .
the old town hall has become the jakarta museum , displaying such rare items as indonesia 's old historical documents and dutch period furniture .
mumbai is a city that is disciplined by no time frame-neither by day nor night .
the colossus of rhodes was not only a gigantic statue .
the project was conceived by his wife and sister artemisia , and the construction might have started during the king 's lifetime .
the tourist office also has a counter at the ajmer railway station .
there were occasions , however , when the two parties were able to unite to see off a common threat .
on special holy days qawwalis ( devotional songs ) are performed in the nakkar khana .
its rich flora , diversity of demography and biodiversity makes it one of the most poetically pleasing hill stations in india .
fort william is another historical spot with its foundation being laid in 1757 and bears the marks of the legendary lord clive .
there are also buses if you are traveling light and want to savor the local culture right off .
bhojan is grand showcasing of typical oriya cuisine , where you can try everything from vegetarian dishes to meaty preparations and sweet delights .
the hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from jain mythology .
prepare to be enchanted by the wondrous colours that carpet the ground on a trek to the valley of flowers .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
jeep safaris are organized in every part of rajasthan , but safaris organized to the bishnoi village near jodhpur have a special attraction for tourists .
today , florida attractions , such as the large theme parks in the orlando area , bring millions of visitors to the state from across the u .s . and around the world .
and it was the beauty of the tomb rather than its size that fascinated its visitors for years .
chowpatty is a popular beach where celebration of festivals such as coconut day and the ganesh chaturthi immersions take place .
gangtok s lively sunday market , lal bazaar is a riot of colour , and is sikkim at its most vibrant .
ao nang is located approximately 6 kilometers from hat noppharat thara and 20 kilometers from the town of krabi .
foreign language audio commentary is available in french , spanish , german , dutch , italian , russian and japanese .
wake up to the chirping of birds , enjoy a relaxing message and let the lapping of waves lull you to sleep .
moradabad , tiny town is now synonymous with brass artifacts that even find their way from here across the seas into harrods and selfridges .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
the story of mysore silk began in 1912 , when the wodeyar royal family imported 32 looms from switzerland to nurture the local art of weaving .
most hotels are located on the arterial station road .
hallowed by the memories of the great seer , ajmer has earned the epithet of madinatul hind or the madina of india .
when the spanish arrived from peru in the 1530s , they found that while many of the inhabitants were hostile , others hailed them as liberators from inca repression .
girdled by deciduous with many species of fish , this lake commands your attention at all times .
the northwestern corner of the complex was planted some 450 year ago by the temples first head priest .
asians are 1.1 percent of the people , native americans 0.4 percent , native hawaiians and other pacific islanders 0.1 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 2.3 percent .
the unparalleled beauty of these islands , create in men a love of nature with a caressing tenderness , a wistful fondness for all its delicate nuances .
soak in the sun on diu s unspoilt beaches , enjoy leisurely rambles on its narrow lanes , and return with unforgettable memories of its picture book landscape .
in the bilaspur is a vyas gufa , which draws a continuous host of tourists and pilgrims .
as an important tourist destination the ins and outs of travel in ajmer are well documented in many a tourist guide .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of temple tours to uttaranchal , india .
the rooftop discotheque and upmarket clientele make it one of shillong s biggest hot spouts .
ko hai island is accessible by taking a ferry and a chartered boat from pak meng pier , trang province .
situated 60 kms from bangalore , at a height of 1478m above sea level , is the nandi hills resort .
dandiya rasa celebrates the community spirit and togetherness , as dancers move in a circle constantly interacting with their neighbor through the striking the dandiya .
to the north , legendary hunza confirms its reputation as one of the world s great mountain communities .
shopping can be both an exciting as well as taxing experience in agra .
eiffel built hundreds of metal structures of all kinds all around the world .
queen victoria was the first monarch to take up residence here after the architect john nash transformed it from buckingham house into a palace .
hills and makes nainital a unique hill station in india .
the creation of a painting is a procedure in stages first , a board is prepared , and the painting done on unbleached cloth , is fixed to it .
north of pokhara is an area protected by the annapurna conservation area project , tucked beneath the southern slopes of the annapurna massif .
india , long considered only a culture destination , is in addition the ultimate outdoor destination as well as with wide ranging options for adventure .
opposite the old bailey is the church of the holy sepulcher .
visit kutch to truly experience the rich tapestry of colors that is gujarat .
north dakota became the 39th state to unite under america on november 2 , 1889 .
at the same time , chiang mai residents are warm , gracious and congenial providing authentic hospitality making visits memorable and meaningful .
for 16 centuries , the mausoleum remained in good condition until an earthquake caused some damage to the roof and colonnade .
no yellow topped taxis run in ahmedabad , only private tourist taxis or the auto rickshaws whose fare has to be negotiated before boarding .
stay in the lap of nature , with sunny beaches , serene backwaters or enchanting forests forming the backdrop .
he devoted the last thirty years of his life to his experimental research .
india is a peninsular surrounded by water on three sides namely the indian ocean , bay of bengal and arabian sea .
the low season of phuket is between september and october as they are the wettest months .
across five indian states spread the mighty himalayas are compressed in this expanse is the widest monotonic geographical variety .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord vishnu .
sing-ju hot and spicy and is eaten after lunch or in the evening .
located far from the sea , south dakota enjoys a continental climate , with hot summers and cold winters made more bitter by winds that sweep across the treeless plains .
more than 3 , 000 tibetans have made dharamsala their emporary home , living mostly in mcleod ganj .
an imagination of dance and context that is simply fascinating .
dalhousie , gateway to chamba , the `` vale of milk and honey `` , sparkling and impetuous streams .
as a climber , you can not afford to suffer from vertigo or a lapse of judgment .
the temple of dhathamandir is situated on the jhelum valley .
set amidst the 300 acres of coffee and spice plantation , the orange county is a good place to begin to experience the hospitality of coorg .
there are 7 temples in the complex - handraprabhu , parasnath , shitalnath , sambhavnath , shantinath , kunthunath and rikhabdev temple , the temples are all connected by a series of corridors and walkways .
blissfully remote and uniquely beautiful , the tranquil environment of chotanagpur offers an ideal escape from the restrictions of civilization .
set in over 50 acres of forest , the bundelkhand riverside palace stands on the banks of the betwa river .
hyderabad also boasts of one of the largest zoos in india , the nehru zoological park .
however , their lot quickly worsened after that , and many native americans were killed or confined to reservations .
the alphabet that he invented in 1283 was essentially the same as that in use today .
se in a portuguese style building , ras resort is located on the banks of damanganga raiver .
national parks & monuments include crater lake , john day fossil beds , oregon caves , newberry .
visakapattinam in andhra pradesh is also a good city having one of the biggest harbors of india carrying out large exports and imports .
three stocks of populaces / tribes to be more precise inhabit arunachal pradesh , a prominent hill station in india .
in taj mahal semi octagonal pilasters that rise from the plinth of the main tomb have demarcated sections in each facade .
ninro is a fern that grows in the mountains , and its tendrils are delicious when sauteed with chhurpi .
despite being relatively central , fulham is also the home to two professional football clubs n fulham and chelsea .
shop in the markets of the old city for everything from antiques and bric-a-brac to fine silks and cotton textiles .
an hourly bus service is available from aurangabad to the nearby town of jalgaon via ajanta .
skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience , which does not require special gear like other higher end sports of the same genre .
people visit these sidh peeths regularly to revere the deity .
the london dungeon brings more than 2 , 000 years of gruesomely authentic history vividly back to life and death .
the great wall has long been incorporated into chinese mythology and popular symbolism .
there are a sizeable number of atms in chandigarh and amritsar .
one can visit these places in this order , first visit renuka then nahan and lastly paonta sahib from shimla side or the vice versa .
these 31 jain temples are somewhat later in origin that the vishnu temple , but are no less remarkable .
along with all the usual five-star amenities , the place is also known for its therapy centre , which offers holistic and indigenous herbal treatments .
there is a very interesting stupa constructed on elevated terrace which is the first of its kind in andhra pradesh .
in 1860 the national debate over the extension of slavery into new territories reached a crescendo .
sink your teeth into the sweet crab meat , slurp up the delicious juice inside a mussel and top it all off with a glass or two of white wine .
the beaches , museums , forts and jail on the andaman island are some of the circuits you will do at a leisurely pace once you are here .
fascinating and colorful , you ll love the music and the energy .
india travel destinations organizes and arranges for tours to ooty with its vast paraphernalia of linked tours and excursions to the nearby sylvan environs .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
apart from ooty it is one of the most visited honeymoon destinations in india , especially in the western ghats , as honeymooners in india will vouch face .
you may even hire 4wds but buses are definitely safer because they move with armed escorts .
the summer festivals is held each year during the month of may in the botanical garden and is an added attraction for tourists .
the agra fort is encircled by a fetid moat .
dudhwa tiger reserve is home to a large number of rare and endangered species which includes tiger , leopard , swamp deer , hispid hare , bengal florican , etc .
winter skiing in garhwal is , now , professionally conducted at the auli slopes .
eco-tourism is typically defined as travel to destinations where the flora , fauna , and cultural heritage are the primary attractions .
though agra is more famous world over as the city of taj , agra fort is another dimension to the city that attracts tourists in hordes .
the converted portuguese market is accustom notified good market and is a great place to pick up important knickknacks at reasonable price .
jaisalmer is also famous for its embroidery , rajasthani mirror work , rugs , blankets , antique , and stonework and camel safaris into the barren sand-dunned desert .
all three cities have direct connections with medan , batam , padang and jakarta and the future will see the introduction of flights to singapore .
leather , wool and silk carpets , stone sculptures , jewellery and inlay work are the major revenue earners .
if you re in pattadakal towards the end of january , there s every chance you ll catch the annual classical dance festival held here .
emile nouguier and maurice koechlin , the two chief engineers in eiffel 's company , had the idea for a very tall tower in june 1884 .
for the authentic mughai non-vegetarian food , look no further than the bunch of small restaurants and stalls clustered near , jama masjid .
wood fossil park is one of the best excursion sites available in the surroundings of jaisalmer .
the powder-soft snow at gulmarg , gund , pahalgam and sonamarg , ideal for skiing , has been acclaimed the world over .
using vegetable and demons , as well as use animal and floral motifs .
some people even tried to escape the firing by jumping into a well in the complex , but drowned and died .
jaipur is also famous for marble statues , blue pottery and the rajasthani shoes .
the great mughal emperor babar laid out this earliest example of a mughal garden .
munnar has a lot of significance in its nomenclature and its glorious historical backdrop too , makes it no lightweight .
the colors and texture of gujarat are at their most varied and vibrant in the districts of kutch , where embroidery thrives as an intricate , precious art .
the magnificent scene of the world 's highest peaks seen during trekking are marvellous and trekkers make it a memory for life .
private transport is the best for most travelers as public transport system leaves a lot to be desired .
enter through the stone archways to your table set in magenta and peech , and lit gently with discreet lamps .
eat it with steamed rice .
parashuram kund is a prominent pilgrimage site .
one can stay in highland monastery villages and small settlements in pristine forests .
during your temple tours to kolkata , india you can visit the dakshineswar kali temple that is associated with the saint ramakrishna paramhansa .
places of nighttime entertainment have also sprung up and are popular among international tourists .
interestingly , the strong colors are made by mixing pigments with milk and mahua liquor .
no two travelers will ever see the same icebergs forged in exactly the same form , such is its ephemeral and austere beauty .
scattered by successive crop failures , the survivors reorganized in 1890 , obtaining a sliver of property in northeastern indian territory .
hollywood has long been the world capital of motion-picture and television film production , in turn drawing numerous tourists .
october to february is considered to be the best period to visit jaisalmer .
experiencing the merging of the past into the present in chiang mai where locals are proud of the city 's 700-year history .
other early explorers included the hunt party in 1811 and major long s expedition in 1819 .
scots-irish , highland scots , germans , and welsh also arrived in the 18th century , many from the colony of pennsylvania .
from guwahati to aizawl , the capital of mizoram , it is a 506 km drive and there are plenty of buses and taxis that cover the distance .
situated at about 10 km from the ooty town , dodabetta peak is one of the most prominent view points around ooty .
it is well known for its medieval temples and chaugan , a public promenade .
this ancient and holy temple is located close to patnitop and is famous for the asad purnima festival that is organized here annually .
for a quich lunch try ghee rice mixed with karampodi ( gunpowder ) or curd rice with curd chilli ( dry red chilies marinated in curd and deep fried .
vawksa rep ( roasted pork ) and sa-um ( fermented pork fat ) are some of the most popular dishes .
the best time to enjoy one of these islands to the fullest is from april to november .
the people of god s own country many of them english speaking are traditionally hospitable , making every guest feel at home .
the fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders akbar and later jehangir and shahjahan .
in 1763 , the treaty of paris ceded formerly french-controlled land , including the wisconsin region , to the british , who later passed it on to the united states .
jefferson davis is inaugurated as president of the confederate states of america on february 18th of the same year .
in an attempt to increase the non-indian population , foreigners of all types were admitted .
dragon jewellery , although not many are aware of it , sikkim produces some truly exquisite jewellery .
all visitors are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the project was conceived and initiated by ptolemy soter around 290 bc , but was completed after his death , during the reign of his son ptolemy philadelphus .
a traditional meghalaya dish prepared with fermeted soya and pork , turrmbai is a local favorite .
the golden state , california takes its name from a make-believe island filled with gold in a spanish novel .
for the budget traveler , the maghalaya tourism-run hotel pinwood is a great choice .
magnificent mountain scenery include the crater and sea of sand at mount bromo , the `` sulfur mountain `` welirang and rugged lien plateau .
located at the heart of the desert , this city of rajasthan is the majestic jewel of rajasthan 's eternal crown .
the main taxi stand is near the bus stand from where one can hire taxis to ellora and the fortress of daulatabad .
important tourist places in the city are the umaid bhawan palace , mahendragarh fort , jaswant thada and mandore gardens .
aurangabad is famous for a variety of beautiful textiles perfected by craftsmen and weavers down centuries .
itmaduddaulah is the tomb of mirza ghyas beg , a persian who had obtained service in akbar court .
the hotel has a charming bar and one of the best restaurants gracing these parts .
to the east are commercial houses and the west bengal government tourist bureau .
parallel to the mall is the market area , which is only open to pedestrian traffic .
ajmer is especially famous for the dargah shariftomb of the sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chisti , which is equally revered by the hindus and muslims .
dharamshala literally means ' the holy refuge .
in 1762 , the entire louisiana territory was ceded to spain , and spanish governors offered free land and no taxes to encourage settlers to inhabit the area .
around & about by air ahmedabad is connected to mumbai , delhi and major cities of india by air .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it .
almora spread over a horseshoe ridge at a height of 1 , 646 meters is almora , once the centre of kumaoni culture and the capital of the chand dynasty .
the headwaters of this mighty yellow river lie in kunlun mountains in northwestern qinghai province .
hiding a wide variety of flora and fauna , and some endangered species , orissa s wildlife parks are a treat for the wildlife bluff .
several championship rallies are held in india every year .
the administrative center of east java is located in surabaya , the second largest city in indonesia and a major industrial center and port .
the army , in a state of panic , rolled tanks into the complex and fired on the akal takht , the seat of sikh religious authority .
this ancient temple is surrounded by a number of other temples that are dedicated to several hindu deities who find a mention in the hindu epic , ramayana .
climbing during winters is , however , possible , besides high mountains , karakoram is inhabited by the largest glaciers outside the polar region .
the weather is the city 's best feature , with pleasant summers and bearable winters .
from fatehpur sikri there are regular buses plying to the bharatpur bird sanctuary about 25 kms away .
the food in anand bhoj , the hotel s in house restaurant , is excellent , and makes a stay here that much more unforgettable .
the bus stand in ajmer is located near the rtdc hotel khadim and the railway is further north and most of the hotels are west of the stations .
of the total population in 2000 , whites constitute 76.2 percent , native americans 7.9 percent , blacks 7.6 percent , asians 1.4 percent , native hawaiians and other pacific islanders 0.1 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 6.9 percent .
unmetered taxis , auto : rikshaws , tempos and cycle rikshaws are the main mode of transportation within the jodhpur city .
the train coaches are pulled and pushed by two 1920s vintage oil fired steam engines to climb 1200 meters through 34 tunnels and 92 bridges and culverts .
cheerfully furnished , furnished , each cottage stands in a private nook , undisturbed by other visitors .
the jyotirlingam located inside the main sanctum of this temple is considered to be one of the 12 most sacred shiva lingams in india .
rather more palatable is the locally produced port wine , known as vinho do porto , while the better port brands are bosco and caravela .
nevertheless `` mangal dham `` is a memorial built in this divine memory in 1993 .
the haat is built to resemble a village , resplendent in brick and terracotta , paved in stone with plenty of green .
nong khai is 615 kilometres from bangkok and has an area of 7 , 739 square kilometres .
andhra pradesh has given the world a number of forms of performing arts , handlooms and curios .
in 1166 , an arab traveler , abou-haggag al-andaloussi visited the lighthouse .
it is estimated that phuket province covers an area of approximately 590 square kilometers if it s 39 other small islands are included .
a wide range of boats are available at the boat house to suit varied tastes and budgets .
a marvelous chhatri with unusual bengali roof and arches , also known as the moosi maharani ki chhatri is situated in this area .
bada bagh is a fertile oasis that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city of jaisalmer .
you can scuba dive or snorkel in the mahatma gandhi national marine park .
great place to shop for all the must-buys featured on this list .
clothing depends on place and time , however , it is recommended to have both light and warm clothing .
artists in each dynasty painted with their distinctive palette and the visitor can tell the works in the tang dynasty from those in the song dynasty .
this ancient temple is set in the midst of sal trees .
take in the entrancing beauty of gujarat s stark landscape , offset by its colorful people .
there are four variety of kasuti embroidery navge , murgi , menthya and gavanthi .
the mughal rulers erected several works of art as an admiration of this land .
better options for getting around in the park are the forest department jeeps and vans .
in the 2nd century , london ( then called londinium ) was controlled by the roman invaders , and a wall was built to protect it .
the lowlands , found further to east , are home to some of the nation 's most beautiful and important rivers : the putumayo , the napo , and the pastaza .
the temple town of udipi is famous for its small images , while the jain centre karkala is known for its jain statues .
if you are an experienced cave diver , in search of an adventure , chapada da diamantina should be high on your list .
ladakh popularly known , as the rooftop of the world is another exquisitely planed height , which can serve as an ideal honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india .
bolghatty palace , situated on the palm-fringed bolghatty island , amidst 15 acres of lush green lawns , this palace was built by the dutch in 1744 .
the aarti on ganga s banks , light dancing on the water , people calling out to the heavens , is a sight unlike any other .
the immortal akshaya vat tree within the patalauri temple , has found mention in the description of several ancient scriptures , writers and historians .
at 3000 feet above the sea level , in the bababudangiri hills of chilmanglur , you defiantly are a little closer to nirvana .
within the grounds of anand bhawan is the jawahar planetarium running four shows in hindi in a day , the planetarium is of special interest for stargazers .
large sections of the wall can be seen close to the museum of london and near tower hill station next to the tower of london .
finally , the dyes are added and the frame is chosen .
there are also numerous finely wrought gold and silver coins , gifted to the synagogue by various patrons .
salim singh ki-haveli is just three centuries old , and is still lived in , its arched roof is held up by well excluded brackets in the form of peacocks .
thus the city has a fairly large number of people who are retired from active life and others who are here for exclusive pleasure seeking .
just a few kilometers away are two undiscovered beaches nandgaon and kashid .
one of the idols inside the sanctum sanctorum is small and would be taken with the kings on their hunts .
the temperature is around 28 c during the day , but can go down to 4 c at night .
watch out for overenthusiastic tourist `` assistants `` that s where your wallet gets lighter .
the birth place of lord krishna , `` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations `` - mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
it was a small village made popular by the british who established shimla as there summer capital in 1864 ad .
things began to change when eastern tribes began to move westward into oklahoma , most of them pushed out by white settlers .
much portuguese architecture still exists in the cochin .
srigangapatnam , island fortress of hyder ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
the palace in chail which is one of the most ebullient of all hill stations in india is a treat to visit .
in the north it bears the world s highest mountain the himalayas .
the most suitable time to visit ko lanta is from november to april .
discourses are conducted here under a huge banyan tree which spreads to almost 40 , 000 sq. ft. of area .
laid in 1952 on the slopes of malabar hill the garden / children 's park offers a panoramic view of marine drive and chowpatty beach .
pho khun bang klang hao , urged by the people to be king , was enthroned with the royal title of pho khun si indrathit .
history lovers may prefer to wander among the ruins of the mighty khmer empire of the 11th-12th centuries .
the tower was built in ochre stone brought from mirzapur , while the floors are made of marble and mosaic .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of my sore .
with assam , mizoram and bangladesh as neighbors , the tiny state of tripura had a special place in nobel laureate robindranath tagore s heart .
dalhousie square ( renamed benoy-badal-dinesh bagh after the three martyrs of bengal ) was created in the heart of the imperial capital of calcutta .
the cluster of islands offers a world of experience relics of the raj , india s only active volcano and a colorful marine life .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
they will also arrange for a tourist guide from the tourist office for you .
himalayas are adorned with beautiful valleys with enough slopes to be exploited positively for the sake of adventure sports .
at tranquil plantation hideaway you will climb on a tree to get the tree house .
nagaland is fascinating , if a vegetarian s nightmare .
and having access to reliable information is important in this city where there is a friendly ' guide ' at every corner .
others believe samba is simply african in origin and that it evolved from the batuque , a music based on percussion instruments and hand clapping .
in order to make the project more acceptable to public opinion , nouguier and koechlin commissioned the architect stephen sauvestre to work on the project 's appearance .
in earlier times , jaisalmer 's strategic position on the camel train route brought it great wealth .
verses from the granth sahib are inscribed on the doorway .
lal bagh also houses the offices of the karnataka horticultural society that renders free advice to those interested in flowers and gardens .
for a quick snack , try the smiley or the bambay toast for snacks .
flooding of water created shallow wetland ecosystem causing bharatpur bird sanctuary to be a perfect habitat for an astounding variety of birds .
the increasing amount of visitors during the late fifties led to the installation of large capacity machinery in the north pier in 1965 .
also , in the early part of 1996 , the building caught fire and almost became a towering inferno .
in a relatively compact area of 55 , 673 sq km , the altitude varies between 350 m and 7 , 000 m .
chikankari , today a style icon all over the world don kurtas , dresses and saris with the delicate chikan embroidery .
farm stay , haryana has been luring swish people to chuck their guccis for a taste of farm life , complete with messy buffalo rides and rustic haryanvi cuisine .
windarmere hotel , the grand dame of darjeeling started out as a humble boarding house for english bachelors .
my all time favourite is the gol gumbaj at bijepur , i really love the sight of its massive dome touching the sky .
come to here and shopping bulk , taking home the bright but brittle toys at anything between rs. 10 and rs. 10 , 000. .
here one steps on to the edge of the trans-himalayan plateau that extends from tibet down into nepal .
however , 24 years later , the burmese succeeded in seizing thalang causing many local residents to flee to phang-nga and krabi .
it had its own chapel and many shops and houses too .
the chail wild life sanctuary is another showpiece in the itinerary of wares which chail , a royal hill station in india has to offer to its connoisseurs .
mogao caves are commonly known as the caves of a thousand buddhas .
from lahaul , the himalayas can be seen in their entire mighty splendor .
constructed with stone and marble , jantar mantar s complex instruments whose setting and shapes are precisely and scientifically designed represent the high points of medieval indian astronomy .
a short distance away from the city looms one of the most magnificent fortresses in india , the golconda fort .
look after your bags and purses particularly in crowded areas .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
he was filled with an unquenchable thirst of world conquest .
this museum contains many relics pertaining to the tenure of the east india company and british india .
buddhist temple at kushinagar and among the ruins of nalanda you can still hear a distant echo of the chants of scholars of ancient times .
mizoram has come a long way-from turbulence between 1966 to 1986 to its present state of peace and prosperity .
the patna planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in asia and attracts a large number of domestic as well as foreign tourists .
khao lak is a coastal park full of birds , mammals and scenic waterfalls , with a number of hotel developments after tsunami disaster in december 2004 .
ajmer is a small town with only a few branches of indian banks .
dalhousie is spread over five hills and is different from other hill stations .
built enormous and lavish in 1911 to replace the old palace in the fort that burned down , the maharaja s palace is an extravagance of domes , arches , turrets and sculptures .
manali is one of the most beautiful and popular hill stations known for lush and fresh scenic beauty .
located on the banks of the the tongbhadra , the delightfully rustic mango tree serves the best meals ( thalis ) in hampi .
bunder chowk a busy little shopping centre is excellent beachwear , shorts and export surplus garments that you can pick up for your seaside holiday .
we strongly advise you to make advance reservations to avoid disappointment .
chapada diamantina , the surrounding 152 , 000 hectare national park , and the gateway city lencois , welcome you with rare natural spectacles and nostalgic charm .
situated atop the kalka hill , the bahai temple distinctive lotus shaped marvel in marble is surrounded by a landscaped garden .
there is a parval ka beeda , which may not sound terribly appetizing but taste divine .
you can graze at the narmada river flowing past the spectacular marble rocks from the comfortable rooms and well kept lawns of this charming motel , marble rocks .
river sports in the rapids are the most popular , throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping .
urs is celebrated from the ist to the 9th of rajab annually .
dolma s is a tibetan eatery , the fluffy pancakes , delicious spring rolls and lemon ginger tea are better than the momos and perfect for cold evenings ( mornings or afternoons .
apart from this picture postcard beauty of kerala , a tour to chithirapuram reveals its agricultural importance to the more interested souls .
the airport is 13 km from the city centre .
many rajasthan roadways passenger and deluxe buses pass through kumbhalgarh from ajmer , pushkar , jodhpur and ajmer .
kakori kebabs are grilled on slow charcoal fires and proudly offerded in little eateries all over the village .
fleeing the religious persecution encountered in eastern and middle-western states , the mormons reached the great salt lake in 1847 and began to build salt lake city .
kashmiries are justly proud of the literary glories of their land .
one of the best institutions called the indian institute of management and indian institute of science are here .
another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india is the amarnath shrine .
as her children had died young , she transmitted the crown to sangramraj , son of her brother udairaj , the ruler of lohara ( poonch ) .
si indrathit s brother , pho khun ramkhamhaeng , ascended the throne in 1278 and reigned for forty years .
phuket , polished pearl of the andaman is truly a destination that provides visitors with memorable experiences .
the great mughal emperor akbar commissioned the construction of the agra fort in 1565 , a.d. .
himachal was known since the earliest of times as `` devabhoomi `` , the abode of the gods .
the ornamental metal or wood combs in animal or bird shapes make great souvenirs .
several trains leave delhi daily for 15-hour journey to patna and from calcutta , the trip by rail takes around 12 hours .
for those who prefer thrills at the table , there s always the state s famously adventurous cuisine .
pattaya is nestled along a picturesque bay on the east coast of the gulf of thailand , roughly 170 kilometers southeast of bangkok .
most groups fly in and out of taplejung , which requires a plane change from biratnagar .
the lake and the cenotaph and the shrine of the hindu reformer swami dayanand , founder of the arya samaj movement in india , can be viewed from here .
the stupa of chankuna is a historical site that is an important historical monument that you must visit during your tours to historical monuments in kashmir , india .
kansas was organized as a territory on may 30 , 1854 and became the 34th state to unite under america on january 29 , 1861 .
at first bossa nova was played as an intimate music in the apartments of rio 's middle and upper-middle classes .
rooms at delhi s prestigious india habitat centre are only available to members , so you ll have to find somebody who can wangle one for you .
from the top of the chanmundi hill one can have a panoramic view of mysore .
the green kashmiri tea , kahwa , honey colored brew , fragrant with saffron , almond and cinnamon .
in jaisalmer the main shopping areas are sadar bazaar and sonaron ka bas , manak chowk , pansari bazaar .
a rock portion projecting overhead and having an angle of more than 90 degrees is called as overhang .
gaitore is the final resting place of the maharajas of jaipur and is located just off the jaipur amber road .
the views from the city are exceptional , especially of the chaltlang hill .
sea cone thailand , based in phuket , was the pioneering eco-tour company that launched thousands of travellers on their sea adventures .
most of the stone artisans live in baulagadia and nilgiri , but you can also buy in bhubaneshwar .
it was originally called lalbagh because the garden had a profusion of red roses .
alappuzha is also famous for its boat races , houseboat holidays , beaches , marine products and coir industry .
the kingdom enjoys such benefits as easy access , sophisticated infrastructure and myriad tourist attractions and activities .
if you are ready for the crowds and noise , they can be a great money saver .
the best place to have any of these is with mizo families .
much chaos and confusion ensued until a peace accord was signed with the government .
bhimtal is located at a motor able distance of 22 kilometers .
the thali is vegetarian but meat lovers have a tough choice between gongura mutton and fish curry .
to the south of the sangam along the yamuna lies the saraswati ghatand close by on the banks of the yamuna is the new , dedicated to lord shiva .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
the wooden house built on a tree is the main attraction in sanjay gandhi botanical garden .
richard travithick produced the first locomotive by bringing the locomotive and railway invention together in 1804 .
the main bus terminus is the idgah bus stand , close to the agra cantonment station .
particularly noteworthy are the floral designs on the walls and ceilings , after tipu 's death the palace was used as a secretariat by the british until 1867 .
the sidh peeth located on the banks of the river nyaar that is popularly known as the narad ganga is a popular temple and is dedicated to the deity ma bhuvneshwari .
visitors to the island must pay a conservation fee , and goods and services on the island tend to be relatively expensive .
papri is boiled sweet and salty beans that are cooked in a pot over a charcoal fire .
alabama has warmth and sunshine for the greater part of the year while the spring arrives early , with the weather warming to the 60s fahrenheit daily by march .
for the change from kashmiri cuisine , try ladakhi food .
these yoga exercises are recommended for the severely stressed out .
both these architectural marvels figure on the world heritage list .
the best place to stay in bandhavgarh national park is the taj group s wildnerness lodge , mahua kothi .
hoshang shah 's tomb is located in mandu , india .
375 km away from the state capital , mumbai , aurangabad sits in a strategic position on the deccan plateau .
their bright coloured and bold patterns may lead a layperson to believe that manipuri shawls are from maxico or peru .
completed in 1653 a . d . the taj mahal built by the mughal emperor shah jahan as the final resting place for his favorite queen , mumtaz .
locally known as tarakasi , silver filigree work is perhaps the most exquisite craft of orissa .
tourists get the bird s eye view of the whole city from the top of the dome .
khon kaen is 445 kilometres from bangkok and has an area of about 10 , 886 square kilometres .
another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india is the amarnath shrine .
kalimpong is an important orchid-growing area and flowers are exported from here to various countries .
ancient chinese people displayed their very considerable skills in building the forbidden city .
the women go to great lengths to find that perfect .
the buddha statue has been placed on the rock of gibraltar in the placid waters of the hussain sagar .
ooty is well connected by good roads .
the region is also home to a number of species of snakes , tortoises and crocodiles , especially the snout nosed indian gharial .
a short distance from ellora is the grishneshwar temple , one of the five jyotirlingas ( self born lingams ) in maharashtra , and an important pilgrim centre for hindus .
the temple deity is known as kalika purana .
towards the end of the 18th century , laotians immigrated to the northern banks of the mun river and founded the provincial capital .
phuket is often dubbed as the pearl of the andaman , or the pearl of the south .
the beauty of thar desert is best described with the help of sam sand dunes , located at a distance of 42 km from jaisalmer .
so when you just want to get away from it all , come to amboli .
northwestern strongholds were turned over to the americans after jay 's treaty was signed in 1794 .
traditional udaipur garden of the maids of honour ' lies to the north of town .
south of bangalore in basavangudi , is the bull temple built by kempe gowda .
the mata murty temple located at the mana village in another temple that you must visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal , india .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska which have gentler rocks .
beyond is another tomb believed to contain the remains of khusraus sister .
until independence , the city was the seat of the maharajas of mysore , a princely state covering most of karnataka .
against the backdrop of the forested satpura hills in seoni district , is the pench jungle camp heaven for wildlife .
glenary s is extremely popular and usually crowded .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
the sanctuary has facilities for renting country boats for bird watching or picnics on one of the islands .
the sikkimese love to spice up their simple meals with piquant or hot pickles .
in haridwar , attractively restored haveli har ganga on the banks of the ganga combines old world charm with modern luxury .
khanqah of shah hamadan is located on the banks of the river jhelum .
the state has no shops or bars selling liquor .
although sea canoes are easy to handle and all safety equipment is provided , it is best to get instruction first .
owned by the kanker royal family , royal bastar farm jagdalpur has quaint little cottages ( some made only of mud ) that are decorated with vivid tribal motifs .
the mahakala temple at ujjain in madhya pradesh , india is an interesting temple site that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
bartholomew the great which stands near the 1 , 000 year old st .
57 km from agartala , 25 km from neermahal , has several temples to lord vishnu , lakes and ruins of an old palace .
cascading waterfalls , the woods in the neighborhood and grassy slopes , all add up to the beauty of mussoorie as a must visit hill station in india .
among the most prominent colonial buildings within the campus is the muir college , now housing the science faculty , built in 1874 by sir william emerson .
it offers a large number of software jobs and gets many foreign contracts .
the shri satya sai baba ashram is the chief attraction at whitefield .
the community canteen is a sikh institution , which was started by guru amar das in the 16th century .
the discovery of oil and the sharp increase in world oil prices in the late and mid 70s should have transformed ecuador 's economic fortunes .
there 's more to amritsar than that amongst other sights is jallianwala bagh , site of the gruesome massacre of unarmed indians by british troops .
north of the museum is the 19th century allahabad university with its indo saracenic buildings .
ooty is one of the most popular tourist resorts in india .
many of these land grants , most of which are in northern new mexico , are owned today by the descendants of these early settlers .
visit the seashell museum , which has painstainkingly pieced togather by a former merchant navy captain , devjibhai fulbaria .
ephesus was later deserted , and only in the late nineteenth century has the site been excavated .
located approximately one and a half hours by plane from the northeast coastal cities of natal and recife , noronha is well worth the time it takes to arrive .
ahmedabad is also the main centre of the huge textile industry .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam .
the monumental labor of love of a great ruler for his beloved queen .
the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
the water is clear and beautiful , and the beaches at corbyn 's cove , wandoor , jolly boy and cinque offer an excellent sea for swimming .
taxis can be hired from amritsar for the visit .
the festivities commence with a spectacular procession inspired by mughal splendor .
butterfly park & insect kingdom with more than 3 , 000 species of buttefly and insect specimens , it is one of the world s largest collections .
tribal dhokra metalwork makes for great gifts , especially the images of gods , animals figurines and human statuettes .
tourism potentials in maharashtra is simply unlimited .
the alaknanda & bhagirath are the main tributaries of the ganga and meet at devprayag , frothing from their racy descent .
seen from a distance , the baltoro appears smooth and beautiful but in fact it is a chaotic tumbling mass of rock and ice , troughs and hillocks and the debris of centuries .
camel safaris are only held in rajasthan in india with the key zones to reach out being , the traditional and historical townships of jaisalmer and bikaner .
most suitable climbing season in karakoram being from the month of may till end of september each year .
singapore s changi airport was ranked by the magazine s readers as their favourite asian airport , while singapore airlines came out tops in the airline category .
junagarh fort turbaned men with proud moustaches and veiled beauties in colored attires and heavy jewellery , overwhelm with their cheerfulness .
hotels are booked to capacity during the pushkar fair and the urs , so make sure you have reservations done well ahead of time .
a good place to buy these fashionable yet ethnic shawls is the manipur handloom and handicrafts department corporation in paona bazaar , imphal .
major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops .
crafted from coconut shells , these pretty and delicate lampshades are unique to the andamans .
finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
jodhpur has its own airport which is connected to jaipur , delhi , udaipur , mumbai and some other major cities .
yet it was conceived , designed and built against considerable odds .
the maharawals ( rulers ) of jaisalmer were devout hindus but were tolerant of jainism , and encouraged art and religion .
the quality of goods varies , but you may well find a genuine bargain .
invest in orissa textile , as heirlooms for children and grandchildren .
especially attractive are the unusual diwans , ornamented with vivid depictions of bastar life .
the quite hamlet of channapatana , also known as toy town , is the best place in the state to shop for lacquerware .
the provincial capital is a fishing port with a superb location beside beautiful curving bays and amongst steep mountain outcrops .
from 377 to 353 bc , king mausollos of caria reigned and moved his capital to halicarnassus .
hernando de soto may have visited eastern oklahoma , while juan de o ate later passed through western oklahoma , french traders from louisiana also visited oklahoma .
each cave has its own story to tell .
in the south-east corner is a small hindu shrine honoring laxmi , the goddess of wealth .
between hua hin and prachuap khiri khan are pran buri with many boutique resorts and khao sam roi yot national park with soaring peaks , numerous caves and exotic bird life .
jakarta is one of indonesia 's designated tourist areas .
amboli 's bracing climate makes it a year round destination .
set up about 30 years ago to cater to hungry commuters using raipur s old bus stand , sahu jalebi bhandar soon became a landmark in town .
the raghunath temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord rama .
the harsh beauty of the diu fort , surrounded on three sides by jagged cliffs and a rock cut canals on the fourth , simply takes one s breath away .
with the highest motorable road at 18 , 300 ft across khardungla to nobra valley , this is a haven for thrill seekers .
once a residence for british officers , this imposing mansion at the foot of the rocky keshkal hills became the palace of the kanker royal family who still live here .
the inner and outer phra nang caves , and phra nang lagoon , which are located nearby offer remarkable views against a stunning backdrop and a range of accommodations to suit every budget .
there are daily flights from the four metros of delhi , calcutta , mumbai and chennai , as well as from cities like ahmedabad , puri , thiruvananthapuram , mangalore and goa .
adjoining the pangi valley is lahaul valley where most of the people believe in buddhism .
haji ali mosque is the tomb of a muslim saint who died while on pilgrimage to mecca .
the beautiful marvel tomb of sheikh salim chishti still attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint .
this temple has a huge stone lingam that has been made of mercury .
the most scenic of these forts is the bekal fort , with a history stretching back to the 12th century .
however , it is also famous for the agra fort , which is a veritable treasure trove of the mughal architectural tradition .
arunachal pradesh was made a full fledged state on 20th february , 1987 .
much like the bengali murighonto , this one is fish s head cooked with rice , potatoes , onion , garlic and other spices .
the menu at mangalore pearl offers a stunning choice , ranging from fish curried and fried to some superlative mussels and calm dishes .
you won t need to carry around a swiss army knife when you have one of these .
one can rent bicycles from the many cycle stalls on station road .
for the sturdy hearted , there is the delicately flavoured ox tounge and the jumping chicken ( something that , in more ways than one , croaked .
best known to the world for its bikaneri sweets & snacks , bikaner 's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in raajsthan 's economy .
even more bizarre is the hunterian museum in the royal college of surgeons .
the swaswara resort also has an ayurvedic centre and yoga and meditation facilities .
nishagandhi dance festival held in february each year , this festival pays tribute to indian classical dance .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of mysore .
following a terrorist bomb in the 1980 's strict rules on baggage have been implemented .
this magnificent yellow river flows quietly , like a shy girl in this section , irrigating the farmlands and nurturing the people .
some however , are still conservative , so to make sure you don t misstep , are sensitive to how the lady greets you and respond accordingly .
there is a bandstand , where bands play throughout the summer months .
another quick getaway in the forested hills is about 3 kms from almora .
visitors can contact tour operators , resorts and bungalows on ko lanta yai for an excursion to ko rok by speedboat .
decorated by professor gamble of the south kensington museum in london , the hall commemorated lord mayo and was built to host public meetings , receptions and balls .
in 1783 , spain regained control of the rest of florida as part of the peace treaty that ended the american revolution .
with support from tourists , local services and producers can compete with larger , foreign companies and local families can support themselves .
feast on lip-smacking snacks in roadside stalls , delectable konkan style seafood and mounds of modaks in maharashtra .
this ancient temple has been constructed atop an artificial hill and a flight of steps leads up to the main temple .
there are a group of temples dedicated to several hindu deities .
the kapaleeswarar temple is located in mylapore located in chennai , india .
halebid 's 12th century hoysaleswara and kedareswara temples are masterpieces of hindu art .
the jeep safari not only refreshes and revitalizes but one feels close to nature while driving through the quiet and beautiful countryside .
kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the durpin dara monastery .
narashimadeva , a ruler from the ganga dynasty constructed this temple .
set in beautiful wooded mountains kalimpong is a remote hill station about 80 kms from darjeeling is known for its beautiful orchids .
there is also a tourist information counter at the agra cantonment station .
this is an idyllic place to relax , unwind and go for long walks .
so , pack your lunch ( highway motels are best avoided ) and head for the pocaampalli handloom weaver s corporative society .
halda is celebrated in lahaul , and is something of a private welcoming of the new year .
it s also one of the best places to buy lacework crotchet , made by artisans of the west and east godavari districts .
the kakori kebab was created when the nawab of kakori was stung by a british officer s remark about the coarse texture of the seekh kebabs .
the lush river valleys surrounded by snow-caped peaks , the fruit-laden orchards , gurgling streams and dense forests that echo with birdsong , evoke enchantment and delight .
sankar varma , the king of kashmir exercised his influence over the regions of himachal pradesh in about 883 ad .
most appealing are the square baskets fashioned by the bansors ( basketeers ) , who paint colouful animal and human figures on the chequered surfaces .
sandwiched between many of the grand houses you can find charming cobbled mews containing smaller residences .
it is theorized that they are the remains of people who came and established a home at kanab nam , but were cut off by an inundation and quickly perished .
arunachal pradesh is the land of the dawn lit mountains is one of the most pristine areas in india .
india travel destinations reserves tours to nainital , which basks in the glory of its natural resplendence and grace .
opened in 1991 , nicco park is the first amusement park of calcutta , 9 km from the city .
the aurangabad caves are buddhist and are divided into two groups by the archaeological survey of india as the western and eastern caves .
the history of florida during this period is one of territorial gain and loss until 1821 , when spain ceded florida to the united states of america .
about 28 kms from amritsar is the border station of atari and the check post between india and pakistan .
chnadigarh , the first modern and planned city of india , is unique in many ways .
there are 2 sailings in a month each from calcutta and madras to port blair & vice versa .
jaipur also serves as the most convenient entry point to rajasthan , india 's most colorful and vibrant state .
the entry of the railroad though southern idaho starting in the 1880s resulted in a number of african-americans settling in pocatello .
france ceded lands including present kansas to spain in the treaty of paris of 1763 , which ended the french and indian wars.t .
motichoor laddoos at ram ashraya or ritz give the most delicious belgian chocolates a run their money .
the mountain views are amazing from durpin dara hill .
this temple is regarded as one of the main shakti shrines in india .
there , he sculpted and carved the different pieces of the statue before they were assembled in the temple .
these are temples of significance to the jain pilgrims .
india travel destinations organizes for tours to places of adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference and a bit high on the adrenaline and heartbeats .
families are welcoming and friendly , and there is no better way to see nagaland than through their eyes .
new mexico became the 47th state to unite under america on january 6 , 1912 .
there 's a prehistoric animal section , a toy train ride around the park , a lion safari and a nocturnal section .
banking in india has become quite easy now .
in time , the federation of motor sports clubs of india ( fmsci ) became the governing body of this sport .
highly recommended for those who don t mind roughing it a bit .
economy handicrafts products like woolen blankets shawls and sweaters are the main items manufactured in amritsar .
versed in many languages , a good poet , lover of music and art , he started his rule in a remarkable way , and became famous in northern india .
kannur is a seat of north malabar 's ancient folk art , theyyam .
phuket s natural resources - rocky peninsular , limestone cliffs , white powdery beaches , tranquil broad bays and tropical in-land forests contribute to making it the south 's wealthiest , busiest , most visited and most popular island and province .
east java 's economy is based on agriculture , fishery , oil industries , coffee , mangoes and apples .
shimla became the summer capital of india and even today , many old houses and buildings tell the story of english grandeur .
when the empire hit the bottom , surat thani was divided into 3 main cities namely chaiya , tha thong and khiri rat .
vancouver named puget sound after the officer who first sighted it , peter puget .
there is an intricate web of waterways in kerala , where the sea playfully teases the shore .
indian and colonial influences are apparent in lobby lounge , the oberoi cecil soaring five-storey atrium , with its polished wooden floor and rich silk upholstery .
the brindabanchandra temple is located at guptipara that is very close to kolkata , india .
yak rides are also on the offer for the celebrating couples .
ajmer has multiple super fasts , express and mail trains to delhi , mumbai , jaipur , ahmedabad and jodhpur .
today , alappuzha has grown in importance as a backwater tourist centre , attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year .
for water enthusiasts , arkansas has more than 9 , 700 miles of streams and 600 , 000 acres of lakes .
andhra pradesh is the home of rich cultural heritage and handicrafts .
sisodiya rani-ka-bagh was built by sawai jai singh ii for his sisodiya queen .
once an administrative and cultural center , khorat 's role today remains unchanged as it is currently the main transportation , industrial and economic hub of the northeast .
another tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to varanasi in uttar pradesh , india is the durga temple .
when salim , the younger son of akbar took over , arjan dev was asked to convert to islam as penance for his favors .
it is said that the great hindustani classical musician mian tansen once sang raag deepak ( song of fire ) here and with the intensity of his music set the place alight .
the north west company and the hudson 's bay company established trading posts in the red river valley at an early date .
world war ii brought about an interruption in the contact of brazilian artists with the international art world , even though many foreign artists lived in brazil .
the sudh mahadev temple in kashmir , india is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to kashmir , india .
a traditional chhattisgarhi breakfast staple is bafuri .
the greatest attraction of the state is its dazzling array of flora and fauna , in a habitat that combines glacial terrain , alpine meadows , and sub-tropical rain forests .
playing host to a mixture of theatres , hotels , shops and charing cross railway station the strand is invariably thronged with people and vehicles .
the shops around the krishnaraja circle in mysore are your beat betswhile others include karnataka state art and crafts emporium and all india crafts emporium .
murud is today popular for its alluring beach , whispering casuarinas , coconut and betel palms , and an ancient fort .
tea room and main hall are places for serving guests , and the furnishings in here are all very elegant .
city palace is a magnificent structure , the palace occupies one seventh of the walled city of jaipur and is a wonderful blend of rajput and mughal architecture .
geographically , bengkulu is located between 2o and 5o south latitude and between 101o and 104o easternlongitude , thisprovinceisborderedby : eastside : jambiprovincewest side : indian ocean south side : lampung province and indian ocean north side : west sumatra province .
you can enjoy terra-cotta ware , traditional rajasthani musical instruments , and a miniature of the royal bikaner train , antique carpets and royal vestments in the ganga golden jubilee museum .
also immensely popular is chhurpi , a fermented , dried cheese prepared from cow or yak milk .
with the mix of people in bangalore , it is common to see christmas and ramzan celebrated with equal vigour .
built in 1901 , the architecture is an interesting mix of mughal and european influences .
the temple is the biggest in the city and is dedicated to lord shiva .
large number of immigrants came to minnesota beginning in the 1830s to work in lumbering and farming .
swaraj bhawan was used as headquarters of the congress party .
there is ladakh , with a distinct culture and topography .
some of the historical monuments located in the region are the buddhist viharas , a burmese vihara , some temples and a tibetan gompa that is dedicated to sakhyamuni .
young children are taken to the temples and are introduced to the letters of the alphabet in front of saraswati , the goddess of wisdom and learning .
one of the thailand 's finest khmer ruins can be seen here next to mon and lao sites .
suburban areas and towns not far from the large cities were the fastest growing parts of the state .
janpath remains one of delhi s most colourful markets and attracts everyone from students to housewives to passing tourists .
mahatma gandhis call for a mass movement against imperialist rule was launched as the quit india movement from allahabad in 1920 .
one of the best havelis of jaisalmer , amar sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers .
even today , the walls of the jallianwala bagh bear the bullet holes where people were mercilessly butchered .
hazaribagh means a thousands gardens and it is a famous health hill resort situated on a height of 2 , 019ft. above sea level .
the attractions on mu ko hong islands include fine beaches , shallow and deep-water coral reefs and various kinds of fish while popular activities include snorkeling , scuba diving , fishing , sea-canoeing and nature studies on the 400-meter hiking trail around ko hong .
khorat used to be the site of several ancient prehistoric communities .
portinari captured in his canvases the way of life of ordinary people , conveying their joys and sufferings in a dramatic way .
the buddhist ruins are located on the contiguous hills locally known as bojjanakonda and lingalametta consist of numerous monolithic stupas , caves and structural buildings .
ajanta finished caves is a representation of the miracle of shravasti when the buddha manifested himself in thousand forms .
puppet shows are a big attraction too .
agra is also famous for its gajak , a crumbly sweet made with sesame and jaggery .
shortly after the death of alexander the great , his commander ptolemy soter assumed power in egypt .
lakshminarayan temple , a modern hindu temple , built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
beyond namche bazaar is the sherpa village of khumjung and further on the famous monastery of thyangboche .
it was during this time , that the valley rose to great heights in the realm of philosophy , artand letters .
one of the most amazing lights that you will come across in the depths of the forests are long cocoons hung from trees branches to dry .
india travel destinations arranges tours to lakkidi , which is also recognized for its cultural vitality and verve .
the rich and fertile plains of the region support an enormous population of over 30 million people .
the mind boggling variety in the menu might confuse the gourmands .
it is a popular belief that this deity grants all your wishes .
while the resident of central sulawesi province who resided in settlement area of hinterland is 30 % coastal area is 60 % and archipelago area is 10 .
selected villages along the markha and sham trekking routs offer a comfortable ladakhi style room , traditional food , and the opportunity to live the ladakhi way .
in 1758 the province of georgia was divided into eight parishes , with four new parishes added in 1765 .
to reach the higher parts , an earth ramp was built around the statue and was later removed .
visit this unassuming place known as patio , for the most delectable seafood dishes .
the lagoons gently brush past villages and overhanging grass , and throw back the palms reflection off their blue-green-blue surface .
after territorial status was granted , the two floridas were merged into one entity with a new capital city in tallahassee .
many of the new residents were lured by favorable spanish terms for acquiring property , called land grants .
alabama today remains largely a black-and-white state , with 71 percent of residents identifying themselves as white only and 26 percent as black only .
lawmusiang in jowai , meanwhile , is the largest jaintia market , is undoubtedly the best place to buy spices in meghalaya .
sangam offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset .
raffles culinary academy is located at raffles hotel , 1 beach road .
he then opened fire on the gathering without any warning , killing and wounding thousands .
the 30 rock hewn caves are adorned with buddhist sculpture and the frescoes portray in epic form the religious and secular life through eight centuries .
this has been made possible by improved equipment and transportation , and the availability of year round bookings in areas , hitherto , considered inaccessible .
the gorgeous and always popular silk sari from kanchipuram is usually at the top of just about anyone s shopping list , when they are in tamil nadu .
the government sandalwood oil factory and krisnaraja circl , at the heart of the city are two best places to find sandalwood products in mysore .
himachal pradesh was made a centrally administered territory in 1948 with the integration of 31 hill states and obtained additional regions in 1966 .
sino-portuguese architecture casts its spell delighting travelers to the city , while phuket-style hospitality has never failed to impress visitors from all walks of life .
above the mall is the main temple complex with shrines dedicated to and lord shiva .
picturesque vintage car rallies are also held in some of the metros like kolkata 's annual statesman vintage car rally .
ensconced in them are tussar silk caterpillars , which are fed on saja and arjuna trees and then taken to the kosa silk farm in jagdalpur .
everyone heads north from there , entering the park after about a day and reaching the lake after two days .
the people in the bangalore city are warm , hospitable and friendly .
the city of agra is world famous for the taj mahal , built by the mughal emperor shahjahan in memory of his beloved wife .
for a unique slice of nature , spend few days here at bheemeshwari jungle lodge .
pick from a variety of intricately designed traditional mizo hats and shawls here .
crawford market used to be the city 's wholesale produce market before it was strategically moved to new bombay .
you won t have to rough it out-all facilities have been incorporated into an authentic setting .
the resort also offers an ayurvedic massage centre and a souvenir shop .
the hariharnath temple located in sonepur in bihar , india is an important tourist destination that you must visit during your temple tours to bihar in india .
various bamboo items are also a good buy from luangmual handicrafts centre .
the master baker s place is where everyone heads for tea or coffee and pastries all day .
it was believed to have been built with machinery instruments for observing the movement of stars and planet .
metal structures soon began to find their way into textile factories , into stage construction and glasshouses .
the sub regions of the karakoram are baltoro , soltoro , hispar , lupghar , khunjerab , panmah , aghilm , masherbrum , saser , siachen , rimo , batura , rakaposhi / bogrot and haramosh .
fateh prakash palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture .
on offer is an amazing range of contemporarily styled handicrafts-sleeker and definitely more innovative than anything you ll see in the state emporia .
located at 1555 m above sea level is beyond lava and one can have magnificent view of the summit of kanchenjunga from the village of kaffer .
more accurate reconstructions may give us an idea about the general layout of the temple .
there is an interesting at the sabarmati ashram every evening .
one company , the virginia company of london , dispatched a fleet of three ships , the susan constant , the goodspeed , and the discovery , under the command of captain christopher newport .
this variety is reflected in the food , architecture , music and culture of brazil .
the tourist has a vast expanse of meadows and grassy knolls to look forward to in this enchanting hill station in india , himachal pradesh .
cross the damanganga and you will arrive at the historical moti daman fort , an atmospheric walled area with lots of old , lovely buildings in and around the fortification .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
a few pieces of sculpture include an image of brahma ( 12th century .
chennai , as a key honeymoon destination in india is home to several attractive honeymoon hotels in chennai , which can delight honeymooners in india , no bounds .
by 1900 , the combined total of scandinavians from norway , sweden , and denmark outnumbered those from any single county .
the building is illuminated on sunday evenings .
qutab minar since those early days many dynasties and rulers flourished on its regal soil .
no visit to the state capital shimla is complete without visiting jakhu hill .
the usual season is late december to early march , depending on the snow conditions .
native kentuckians include the mingo ( seneca-iroquois ) , the cherokee , and the shawnee .
chiang mai , with an altitude of approximately 310 meters above sea level , is situated approximately 700 kilometers from bangkok on the mae ping river basin .
it has long been believed that the colossus stood in front of the mandraki harbor , one of many in the city of rhodes , straddling its entrance .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
jag mandir is an island palace located in pichola lake , constructed by maharana karan singh for the hideout of prince hurram .
another great favourite in varanasi is the chaat in chaat gali , a street of vendors selling the spiciest , most lip smacking chaat in the state .
mandi is situated on the left bank of the river beas at an altitude of 800 m. above the sea level .
soon afterwards , in 1828 , the country declared war on peru , whose armies had invaded gran colombia .
allahabad is also known for its annual magh mela ( mini kumbh mela ) and colorful dussehra festival .
its ornate decor , arched corridors and green lawns , z hotel is full of old world charm , and famous for its personalized service and superb food .
kaen nakhon lake in the centre of town is a popular spot for picnics and dining , while wat that on its bank features typical isan spires .
a minicoal mine is the main attraction .
the flight from kathmandu to jumla passes south along the dhaulagiri range and provides lovely views of nepal 's western landscape .
devotees come for ritual bathing in the holy waters at the sangam and priests or pandas perform special rites of worship to help them in their quest for salvation .
phuket borders on phang-nga province to the north and the other 3 sides are encircled by the andaman sea the place where many of the best diving sites are located .
the other worthwhile products are cane and bamboo furniture , woodcarvings and decorative handicrafts like lampshades , toys and tribal jewelry .
in the normal course of events , all hotels in exotic locales are a big draw for people but honeymoon hotels in chennai belong to a different class altogether .
though the temple was rebuilt and is now back to its original glory , the scars in the minds of the sikh people remained .
the kapasi handicrafts emporium was opened in 1973 at ashram road and has now somthing of a household name ahemdabad .
and if that s not enough to satisfy the adventure in you , head to the historical ellora caves .
ajanta caves are 106 kms from aurangabad and date back to the 2nd century bc .
areas of london still bear the names of the gates in the wall , the main ones being aldgate , cripplegate , bishopsgate , newgate and ludgate .
the magh mela is the annual version of the kumbh and ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from makar sankranti in jan.and ends at maha shivratri in feb .
in the post independence period , the town once again saw a spate of bloody warfare , now between the indian administration and sikh militant groups .
portuguese built the fort and walled the town of diu against invasions , and during their reign , turned the island into a leading ship building centre .
polo facilities are on the rise and polo holidays in india too are in vogue .
amanat khan shirazi was the calligrapher of taj mahal , his name occurs at the end of an inscription on one of the gates of the taj .
water skiing is another addition to the whole structure of skiing in india but it is also very much a part of the whole calendar of skiing in india .
held in the second week of november , over three eventful days , the chandigarh carnival annual event has become a favourite with locals and tourists alike .
in 1560 almora was made the capital of the chand rulers .
still further north , the karakoram and hindu kush ranges shape the western extension of the himalayas .
bengkulu province is divided among 1 municipality and 3 districts , with bengkulu as its capital city .
the pawan dham temple is known for the elaborately decorated idols and is a must visit during your temple tours to haridwar in uttaranchal in india .
the central , eastern and western plains have tropical dry deciduous forests , while the southwestern plateau has tropical thorny forests .
the baqerkhani , comparable to a puff pastry , is sure to make any breakfast a special affair .
osage indians settled in the rich woodlands of northeastern oklahoma around 1796 .
priests at the local temples channel the voice of the gods to gathered villagers and answer questions about the future and offer solutions to problems .
sirmaur , triangle of 3 important tourist places namely nahan , renuka and paonta sahib , have attracted many tourists all round the year .
agra is a big exporter of leather and leather products to the west and you get to pick up some real bargains here .
respected by the indians , york today is credited as being of great value to the success of the trip .
the restaurant uses an authentic indigenous style of cooking and makes mouth watering tawa , kadai , degchi , and legan curries .
the meghalayans hand-weave very light shawls in pastel colours with dark or bright checks .
the palace is only open to the public during the summer months , while the queen is staying at balmoral , her scottish castle .
voting ran from may through september 2005 with a record-breaking number of more than two million ballots cast online .
the pristine beaches are also the hub of the water sports such as scuba diving and snorkelling .
of course , what really made some one love the place was that the hotel sao tome retiro , affectionately known as georgie s offers accommodation in part of cathedral .
the nearest airport is lilabari in assam , 57 km from naharlagun and 67 km from itanagar .
though madras is predominantly populated by hindus , it has several fine monuments and places of worship connected to the christian faith .
resounding with foot tappings and mridangam beats , it s a must visit for every arts lover .
gateway of india , this 26 meters high stone archway is the first landmark of mumbai a visitor sees when arriving by ship .
despite being a hazard to ships hin daeng submerged open water reef on the outer edge of the andaman sea is a superb diving spot featuring diverse colorful corals .
on january 11 , 1861 the alabama secession convention passes an ordinance of secession , declaring alabama a `` sovereign and independent state .
this three storeyed shop ( between of other shops with same name ) has one of the finest collections of sculptures in hyderabad .
the whole northern pakistan has come to be known as a paradise for mountaineers , climbers , trekkers , hikers and anglers of the most famous trout fish .
come to the banyan tree to sample excellent thai cuisine , made with fresh catch of the day .
ooty is connected to mettupalayam , through railway , which is then , directly connected to coimbatore and chennai .
whenever any newcomer to the capital city even mentions the world shopping , he is invariably pointed towards dilli haat .
in front of this hall is a courtyard with a pachisi court ( a game like ludo played with dice ) where the emperor played using slave girls as live pieces .
the dance is usually performed on specially put up stages in connected with temple festivals .
in his left hand , he holds a scepter inlaid with every kind of metal , with an eagle perched on the scepter .
from the city agra , there are taxis , tempos , auto rickshaws , and cycle rickshaws to carry one to the agra fort .
kailashnatha temple is carved out of a single rock and that too with bare hands .
all official transactions and meetings are held in gandhinagar , the administrative capital while ahmedabad and surat are two important trading centers .
from the 16th century , roman catholic churches and convents in brazil were decorated in the european style , often by brazilian craftsmen who had been trained in european methods .
the leader of party using treks in restricted area shall , on arrival in rawalpindi/islamabad , inform the officer concerned in tourism division of their arrival .
southern spices d menu gives fair representation to all the regional flavors of andhra cuisine .
dolpo trek on its own takes one to two weeks , assuming you fly there in and out of dunai .
the kangra valley is one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalyas .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
classes are designed to make cooking easy and fun for novice as well as advanced chefs , so students of any culinary ability are welcome .
it was his chief queen kota rani , who practically governed the state .
most of the factories in khorat , are rice mills , tapioca product manufacturers , and industrial factories .
among its much architectural game are the places for his queens jodha bai , mariyam and his turkish sultana , built in varying styles , each perfect in it .
the town has everything from the very basic in tourist accommodation ( rs.100 single rooms ) to the one luxury hotel ( prices in the range of rs 1500 2000 .
it is worth going the distance because mon is home to the best artisans among nagas-the konyak nagas .
rajasthan so commonly characterized as the land of chivalry and bravery , is also home to the largest desert of india , the thar desert .
the structure of taj mahal adheres to the islamic style ( mughal style ) of architecture , which flourished in india during the medieval period .
average temperatures of phuket ranges between 23 c and 33 c .
the total height of the mausoleum was 45 m ( 140 ft .
kalindikhal trek starts at nandanvan , and ends at badrinath .
besides the dilwara temples there is the eklingji temple in udaipur in rajasthan , india that you must visit during your temple tours to rajasthan , india .
located just above the beginner ski slopes in a beflowered meadow , overlooked by beautiful hills , its views of the gulmarg valley are calendar worthy .
ahmedabad is famous for cotton textiles and traditional jewellery .
boating and fishing facilities are available at kumarakom .
a remarkable structure , this is a masterpiece of indo islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the ajmer city .
the chances are that you will lose track of time in this quiet retreat with its rejuvenating climate and charming mountain scenery .
the annual flower , fruit and vegetable shows are regularly held here .
the plus hotel , with its manicured lawn , elegant rooms , wooden floors , thangka scrolls and striking dragon-motif decorations does justice to its illustrious past .
the old city spreads along the eastern banks of the river yamuna .
one such temple is located at sangura in bilkhet in uttaranchal in india .
the ashrafi mahal is another interesting historic site that was a theological college .
in 2000 whites comprised the largest share of the population , representing 92.4 percent of the people .
irulas and mudugars are the main tribes inhabiting the waynad region which houses the rain soaked lakkidi as a famous hill station in india .
relations between the races have tended to shape mississippi 's history and to foster a conservative political philosophy and an insistence on state 's rights among its white majority .
india is considered the cradle of modern polo .
you can reach every corner of the island with singapore s modern public transportation system .
palika bazaar another famous underground shopping centre is located here .
native americans inhabited montana when europeans first explored it includes the sioux , cheyenne , blackfoot , shoshone , arapaho , kootenai , and the flathead .
kullu is a congregation point of streams of reverie water drifting down from an astoundingly large number of valleys , which are eight in number .
like phang-nga , krabi offers a great opportunity for diving due to its numerous natural marine resources including over a hundred offshore islands .
just where the river damanganga flows into the sea lies daman , picturesque and serene on its enviable seashore locations .
himachal tourism development corporation has constructed a glass house for residential purpose in solan .
dadra & nagar haveli is a boon for families , geared up for children with parks and gardens at many locations .
the sunny , southern coastal town is named after the local goddess mangladevi .
the throne is decorated with gold , precious stones , ebony , and ivory .
for floor coverings you can try kharal , a traditional floor spread woven entirely from camel and goat hair .
while you can sit on the small landscape lawns and eat , the place can get rather crowded especially on weekends .
mathura , a quiet town on the river yamuna was transformed into a place of faith after lord krishna was born here .
emperor akbar founded this city in 1575 and called it by name of ` illahabas , which has now become modern allahabad .
most of the good restaurants are in the sadar bazaar and cantonment areas .
many of the islands are surrounded by fringing reefs , often several hundred meters wide and separated from the shore by a lagoon of similar width .
king si indrathit had two sons-pho khun ban mueang and pho khun ramkhamhaeng and after death , pho khun ban mueang succeeded him .
its lotus pool and leafy environs are popular with residents .
renovated in the 19th century the kumbhalgarh fort is accessible only by jeep from kelwara through the seven gates .
the sufi saints are considered to be the greatest ambassadors of islam in pakistan and india .
the eco camp is a unique experiment by the assam anglers ' association and the state 's forest department .
for the perfect cleansing of mind , body and soul , head to pousada tauma , colonial style boutique hotels with a dash of ayurveda thrown in .
but for those determined to play the business game in uttar pradesh , here are a few pointers .
as you step into little india , be prepared for an overpowering of the senses .
in 1984 , 38 canvases of the notable painter , chen yifei , were exhibited in a new york gallery of armand hammer , chairman of occidental petroleum corporation .
maharaja bhupinder singh was deprived of the right of entry into the more royal and grandiose shimla as he had a spat with lord kitchener .
this sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from jammu , india .
palace on wheels is a journey worthy of kings .
ride through the corbett and rajaji national parks for an awe-inspiring sight of mighty elephants , beautiful cheetal , the majestic tiger , and a stunning variety of migratory birds .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
spas and retreats , which range across all budgets , offer long-term therapy for specific diseases detoxifying and reviving routines and quick relaxing massages .
according to legend , when lord shiva was going to kashi along with one crore other gods and goddess , he made a halt at this location for a night .
he is undoubtedly the samudra gupta of kashmir .
live in the homes of the tribals and enjoy their hospitality .
situated at fort canning park , the academy offers a leisurely and fun environment for experiential learning for tourists , business travellers , culinary and hospitality college students and locals alike .
this fermented mushroom is usually fried and cooked with black sesame seeds and , you ve guessed it , pork .
sostratus , a contemporary of euclid , was the architect , but detailed calculations for the structure and its accessories were carried out at the alexandria library / mouseion .
ooty lake is a very popular tourist spot in ooty .
for the more adventurous , deep sea diving unfolds precious treasures of corals , vegetation , sponges and fish life .
generally , local calls are charged at 10 cents for every three minutes .
bamboo and straw are put to good use in daman , where mat weaving is one of the best known handicrafts .
the temple tower or the shikhara at the jagannath temple is as high as 192 feet .
the coastal climate of maharastra makes traveling pleasant all round the year .
just 21 kms from the city and easily accessible by road is the bannerghatta national park .
this central courtyard also enshrines the deity of the royal family .
the community kitchen feeds up to 10 , 000 people in a day , free of charges .
geographical formations gradually changed the capes location , finally detaching it from the mainland .
guesthouses and lodges provide standardized accommodation at low costs for the great indian middle class traveler who has to watch his wallet but will not compromise on cleanliness and hygiene .
the foundation of the temple was rectangular in form , similar to most temples at the time .
try the poo gathi , which is river crab meat in a spicy curry and the pla red prik ( crispy fried fish .
the shuttle offers a flexible routing system between singapore changi airport and almost all hotels within the city .
a few kilometers from manali is the rohtang pass , a place known for the divergent landscapes .
pattaya has a plain on the coast with some high mountains to the south and the area on the east slopes down towards the sea on the west .
the tiled floors , curved wooden ceiling , beautifully crafted doors and specially created pools add to the ambience of grandeur .
you learn that the long-haired camel with hair on its ears is the bikaner variety , famed for its strength .
it is an ideal getaway for picnic while traveling between dalhousie and chamba .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity , lord rama .
it is agreed upon by almost all the chinese people that the yellow river is the cradle of chinese civilization , the spiritual home of the chinese people .
chennai is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
the mughal described kashmir as paradise on the earth .
krabi horticultural centre , agro-tourism attraction , supported by the department of agricultural extension , is approximately 20 kilometers from krabi on the way to amphoe ao luek .
many of the homes lining the streets looked quiet like something out of a garcia marquez novel , with their old fashioned shuttered windows and charmingly shabby tiled roofs .
yet another carving is of harihara , the right half of this figure depicts shiva the destroyer and the left , vishnu the preserver .
' memory of hometown ' which depicts twin bridges was one of the items on display and has gained the world 's attention for zhouzhuang .
colorful crowds from all the surrounding villages congregate at this place to celebrate the festival with much enthusiasm .
aurangzeb chose khuldabad as his final resting place because the mausoleum of sayeed zain-ud-din , a muslim holy man lies next door .
mountaineering routes are graded , according to the degree of difficulty and accessibility .
in goa give the glitzy seaside resorts a miss , and head to one of these delightful boutique hotels or eco friendly lodges .
a beautiful lake surrounded by a thick shoal where even sunlight can not penetrate and abundant with a wide variety of avifauna is a nature lover s paradise .
the annapura bhavani temple is located near the vishavanatha temple in varanasi , india .
recorded evidence also exists in the revered scriptures the vedas and the grand epics , the ramayana and the mahabharata , as also in the puranas of this holy place allahabad formerly called prayag .
the well of saraswati is believed to be the source of the elusive river saraswati lies inside the fort .
habitat aurangabad city is located in the northern part of the state of maharashtra , in the western region of india .
the main tourist attractions are panchpula , kalatop and khajiar lake .
to get there is easy thanks to the docklands light railway , six stops south from canary wharf .
the final chapter came when in ad 401 the temple of artemis was torn down by st john chrysostom .
then there are well preserved forts and places of gwalior , orchha and mandu , guaranteed to transport you to a glorious era in madhya pradesh s history .
known as the darshani deori , the entrance is up a flight of steps and down again to the temple and holy tank .
the ajmer lake , situated on the edge of desert and surrounded by hills on the three sides is separated from ajmer by nag paharthe snake mountain .
there are also an agricultural product promotion centre , herb gardens , fisheries and mussel farms located along the krabi-phuket route in krabi horticultural centre .
another 2km away , amongst the showpieces at the gallery of vintage and classic cars is a rolls royce phantom ii of 1934 vintage .
most of the temples in orissa , india are known for their indo-aryan nagara architectural style that apparently is distinctive of the temple architecture in orissa , india .
new mexico was organized as a territory on september 9 , 1850 ( in 1863 , part of new mexico territory was separated to form arizona territory .
it has the mausoleum of the sufi saint , khwaja moinuddin chisti whose blessings are eagerly sought by pilgrims to his dargah .
his son fateh khan named the city he ruled over , fatehpur in 1626 .
the white-domed peace pagoda , or the shanti stupa , on shauli hill is a reminder of the days that emperor ashoka spent in this picturesque state .
situated on the slopes of malabar hill , kamla nehru park is mainly a children 's park named after the wife of india 's first prime minister .
emerald pool is hot spring originates from a warm stream in the lowland forest of khao nor juji which is supposedly thailand 's last piece of virgin and fertile forest .
an extremely well planned city , jaipur was designed by an engineer and scholar vidyadhar bhattacharya , in accordance with ancient hindu treatise on architecture , the shilpa shasta ( vastu ) .
with the first light of dawn , the reflection of the temple in the tank gives an ethereal atmosphere to the complex .
also worth picking up the pungent ( stinky , say some ) goan sausages , or chouricos , as they are known locally .
with a lot to offer the avid tourist including incredible deccan mughal architecture , the most pleasant feature of aurangabad is its inhabitants .
the legislators paused en route for several days to conduct business at ebenezer , a small german settlement .
one of the temple 's outer walls carries an exquisite carving of sri krishna playing his flute , and within , there is a fine statue of lord ganesha .
splendid painted decoration on these royal architectural wonders , the grand and deluxe halls , with their surprisingly magnificent treasures will certainly satisfy ' modern civilians .
along the banks of river ganga is patna , ( originally known as pataliputra ) , the capital of bihar .
orissa beckons you to be its guest .
an 80-pillared hall belonging to the mauryan dynasty has also been found on excavations and the place is surrounded by greenery and gives a very scenic look .
it is a phenomenon that is proof of the technical excellence of ancient architects , of their knowledge of astronomy combined with great architectural skill .
to the east of the botanical garden is the toda mund ( hill ) .
the most renowned exponent was guru kelucharan mahapatra , who made odissi a worldwide phenomenon .
in one sense , it is with bustling markets , haphazard traffic , unyielding cattle , crowds and congestion typical of small town india .
the chhatrapati shivaji terminus better know as victoria terminus is a splendid example of gothic architecture .
the site beckons the clients with on-line booking of tour packages to the hills and relevant information about the hill stations of india ensconced in nilgiri hills .
the largest cave or the great chaitya cave is an impressive colonnaded temple with a pagoda .
skyscrapers in the center of the city are part of a new look .
isaac shelby , a revolutionary war hero , was the first governor , and frankfort was chosen as the state capital .
power is forever in short supply and on the whole , a healthy business environment is sadly lacking .
chief black kettle was a southern chief chief who gained famed as an outspoken proponent of peace with white men .
the city offers all modern facilities needed by a visitor and is a centre for cultural activities .
a party shall also provide to porters standard kit/equipment , free of cost .
singapore is linked to malaysia by two causeway bridges , and the key islands of the riau archipelago of indonesia are just a quick ferry trip away .
kozhikode beach is replete with old world charm , with its romantic lighthouse and two century old crumbling piers .
clerkenwell is a fascinating and varied area of london which is at last witnessing a period of regeneration and rediscovery .
however , relations between ecuador and peru have been tense ever since .
a small charge is made for a 35 minute audio tour , which includes a visit to the crypt .
nagas certainly know what they like on their plate .
for elegance and luxury , the rooms and darbar hall of jehan numa palace get full marks while the vast courtyards add to the aristocratic ambience .
you are sure to enjoy shopping for ethnic clothes from anokhi , fabindia and kotwara in khan market .
if a helicopter is needed , a deputy commissioner shall arrange for the same on payment basis , but the party will have to a bear the expenses .
the sherpas live in the himalayan region , but the newars constitute an important ethnic group of the capital valley kathmandu .
the best thing about the trip is the distinctive terrain , and you will go through everything from sunny beaches to wooded forests .
before her , two other queens had ruled kashmir namely yashovati and sugandha .
another delicacy of the new taj mahal cafe is the bibbeupkari ( tender cashews plucked before they become nuts and made with grated coconut spices ) , which is the seasnol offerings .
these elephants are exquisitely carved out of white marble .
there are several temples of interest in the uttaranchal that you may visit during your temple tours to the region .
there are also numerous one or two day treks out of pokhara town , where one can have views of dhaulagiri , the annapurna range , manaslu and ganesh himal .
and because of dangerous sailing conditions and flat coastline in the region , the construction of a lighthouse was necessary .
this historical monument is an excellent example of indo-saracenic architecture .
mandi is district made out of two princely states of mandi and suket .
camel safaris in india are a quit essentially rajasthani affair .
the khanvel forest rest house is unfortunately reserved for government staff , mainly forest department visitors , but it s a good place for a wander around .
the annual urs at dargah of khwaja moinuddin chishti is held on a grand scale and attracts pilgrims from all over the world .
occupied by the chand dynasty till the 18th century , it was annexed by the gurkhas in 1798 and finally the british after the gurkha wars of 1814 1815 .
these are some of the delights which adventure tourism in india has to offer to the interested souls .
bangalore is now an international airport as well and is currently served by lufthansa , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
it is well worth a visit to what londoner 's often call ' buck house ' but it can be very tiring .
when phraya tak 's army arrived in the vicinity of what is pattaya today , he encountered the troops of nai klom who tried to intercept him .
when the civil war broke out in 1861 , kentucky was torn apart by conflicting loyalties .
the lands which the osage and quapaw had ceded to the united states government were set aside for indians who were being relocated from their tribal homes in the southeast .
agartala has no nightlife because of the intermittent insurgency .
huge amounts of timber and other materials were freighted from faraway provinces .
here is trident hilton hotel that will make you forget that gurgaon is a concrete jungle .
the novel shopping experience takes mussorie into a totally different class in comparison with other hill stations in india and adds to the beauty of mussoorie .
a visit to any of the monuments at mamallapuram will give you a good idea of skill possessed by the craftsmen in the area since the time of the pallavas .
the himalayas which have nearly fourteen thousands glaciers are one of the largest continental areas under ice .
spanish and english sailors are believed to have sighted the oregon coast in the 1500s and 1600s .
the reservations of the room can be made well in advance as per the requirements of the tour .
because the statues were of people and animals , the mausoleum holds a special place in history as it was not dedicated to the gods of ancient greece .
the sadar club was built by the british about 100 years ago and the ambience is wonderful especially if you like a round of golf .
the city is also a welcome departure from other large cities of india in its spacious layout and regulated life .
tigers and elephants wander through the remains of the original rainforest , where exotic rafflesia 's and orchids grow .
the result of all these measures was that a great increase of land became available for cultivation .
gauri udiyar , this sacred site is one place that you must visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal in north india .
in his right hand he holds a figure of victory made from ivory and gold .
sandy resort is another that offers many convenient facilities , and is also one of the oldest in daman .
carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers if you are staying in a hotel to maintain your own standards of cleanliness .
one of thailand 's finest warriors , king ramkhamhaeng made sukhothai a powerful and extensive kingdom which included many parts of what are today neighbouring countries .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available in plenty .
khuldabad is a walled city also known as rauza and famed as the ' heavenly abode .
some of the most popular temple tour destinations in rajasthan , india are the dilwara temples , kalki mata temple , mahavira temple , eklingji temple and the someshvara temple .
during your temple tours to rajasthan , india you must visit the dilwara temples located in mount abu .
a steep climb up rewards the weary visitor with an amazing bird s eye view of ajmer .
om puri s voice and some stunning lighting and sound effects help recreate the dark days that were .
today , a monument commemorates sergeant charles floyd , the only member who died during the expedition .
the kheer bhawani temple is the pilgrim centre of the goddess maharagya devi .
even better you can shop to the sound of live music , performed by internation bands in ingo s .
there are a rich variety of rare fauna and flora in meghalaya , which delight visitors .
the camel fair at pushkar can be another added attraction if the travelers want to witness a camel dance in all its elegant glory .
whether you are suffering from a serious health problem or just want to cleanse your system , the satya health spa is a perfect place .
on the wine list at leela palace kempinski , rice wines like soju add to the experience .
south west of jaipur , ajmer is an oasis wrapped in the green hills .
the one to the right , the jawab ( answer ) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the mecca .
most of the trekking routes lies in the northern mountains of the hindukush , the karakorams and the himalayas .
the region around almora was ruled by the katyur dynasty from the 9th century ad .
visitors may drive across the bridge and through howrah , the industrial extension of calcutta or take ferry from chandpal or tekta ghats to the gardens .
this should be done within 14 days on arrival in india , irrespective of their actual period of stay .
the aryan influence over this area dates back to the period before the rig veda .
the temple was eventually restored and is labeled `` temple e `` by archeologists .
there s tribal jewellery , handicrafts , and wood carvings to choose from , but no one leaves nagaland without a colourful shawl .
bangalore is generally regarded as a place that most visitors like to chill out in .
the st sebastian 's church here is an important christian pilgrim centre .
the kalindikhal trek promises to be a rare experience , even for the most seasoned trekkers .
from a fishing village in the 1960 's , pattaya has emerged as the favorite southeast asian vacation center .
beaver fur was considered on of the most precious commodities on the continent .
in salar jung museum there are one man collection of manuscripts , ancient weapons , costumes and curios. high court buildings .
regular bus service connect hyderabad with bangalore , chennai , nagpur , tirupati and other tourist centers in andhra pradesh .
surrounding the central chamber are four octagonal rooms where the other members of the royal family were to have been laid to rest .
in 1877 , sajjan singh placed a lavish order of crystal items from abroad for his personal use .
egrets , darters , herons , teal , waterfowl , cuckoo , wild duck and migratory birds like the siberian stork that live there in flocks are a fascination for visitors .
the last section is the two-storied dwelling which consists of several buildings which are quite different from the main hall , more comfortable and refined in pattern and atmosphere .
in summer , regular cultural programmes , fashion parade , flower and fruit shows are arranged in ooty .
fatehpur sikri a city of yesteryear today lost in the mists of time .
the heritage of malabar coast is not just a matter of isolated monuments but of a living legacy .
albert hall contains a fine collection of sculptures , paintings , decorative art objects , natural history specimens , an egyptian mummy and a celebrated persian garden carpet .
in kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctuary the most famous attractions are the flamingoes , cormorants , spoonbills and egrets which can be spotted during winters .
the state capital is salem , other major cities or towns include portland , eugene , gresham , beaverton , hillsboro , medford , springfield , bend and corvallis .
a motorcycle is speed and precision personified , with the possessor of the machine turning into a speed hawk , seconds after he or she spurts on the engine .
custer later met his end at the hands of sioux and cheyenne warriors in montana .
for details on the london pass and a list of attractions that it covers , click here .
by air bangalore is very well connected with the rest of india .
roha on konkan railway is the nearest railhead. mumbai is 165 kms. by road .
khajjiar is a modest grass-covered meadow located in the enchanting valley of chamba .
they lie amidst beautifully kept gardens and a number of them have intricately carved stonework .
the historic buland darwaza , which is 85 feet high , was constructed by sultan ghayasuddin of mandu .
the capture of mobile in 1780 by the spanish during american revolution retained the west and east floridas as part of a war-ending treaty .
in panch jaungle camp there s a battery spacious dining area and a well stocked bar .
machiya safari park lies on the way to jaisalmer , about 1km from kailana lake .
the tastefully decorated rooms afford either a view of the river or the manicured lawns .
karnataka s finest honey comes from bhagamandalam , near medikere , in the kodugu district , where some of the best apiaries are located .
at a height of 2 , 623 metres , dodabetta peak is the highest point in the district .
it packs quite a punch , but is absolutely yummy and worth braving , if you have the stomach for it .
he built a medieval fort on the same spot where the lighthouse once stood , using the fallen stone and marble .
originally a land of warriors , manipur has several monuments in the memory of those who laid down their lives to shield the state from incursions .
the highlights of your stay her could be moonlight fishing and trekking in the havelock jungles .
lepakshi has become a major tourist attraction because of the finest architecture and paintings found in the temples here .
assam is the gateway to the north-east and is dominated by the mighty river brahmaputra that has its origin in tibet .
you could tuck into pizza from a wood-fired oven .
spend your days meandering through scenic hills capes and misty forests , pack a picnic and wander up un trodden paths .
during the civil war ( 1861-1865 ) slavery increased greatly in arkansas after a cotton boom in 1818 .
mahatma gandhi marine national park at wandoor is at a distance of 29 km from port blair , covering an area of 281. 5 sq km .
you may need to obtain permits for some places , but it s well worth the effort .
49 kms from bangalore city , ramanagaram is famous for its rock formations , a great attraction for rock climbers .
based on a poll of over 900 readers , the quorum awards have been running for 10 years .
you can also see the royal decree of prince jehangir advising rai singh to immediately proceed to delhi as emperor akbar is dying .
the mango tree special thali is the single best idea here don t bother with the rest of the menu , just order the banana coconut lassi .
clean white sand , crystal clear water and a tranquil atmosphere has continued to attract tourists in search of peaceful and relaxing holidays .
windsor pub located off miller road in bangalore , is this delightfully authentic little pub .
the mysore palace is also thrown open to the visitors and the royal throne is displayed .
literally kullu the valley of hundred temples and a thousand derties , it offers peace , a mysterious , spiritual peace .
brazilian folk arts are among the richest and most varied in the hemisphere .
two local dives in the poda / yawasam group cost approximately 1 , 900 baht .
alwar is nested between clusters of small hills of the aravalli range .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
whites remain the largest ethnic group but , for the first time , no longer constitute the majority .
born in dijon in 1832 , he graduated from the ecole centrale des arts et manufactures in 1855 , the same year that paris hosted the first world 's fair .
this peculiar hill resort bejeweled by the city center nakki lake , is one place amongst the hill stations in india which has a lot of legend attached to it .
the town has rich growth of deodar and pine forests as well as tea gardens .
paiute and the plateau tribes of the coeur d alene , nez perce and kootenai .
it is still one of the most appealing attractions all around the world owing to its architectural grandeur and historical significance .
the lofty battlements of the agra fort cast its protective shadow over the far stretching mansions of nobles and princes built along the riverfront .
all the major indian festivals are celebrated in banagalore with pomp and gaiety .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking for tours to temples of haridwar in uttaranchal , india .
surajkund is 8 km from south delhi on way to faridabad .
it is probably the ugliest building in london , although the new british library may be another contender for the title .
none of them , however , survived to the present day .
darjeeling , with its unending stretches of fragrant tea garden , is a decadent reminder of times past .
the first european to enter what is now colorado may have been the spanish conquistador francisco vasquez de coronado in the 16th century .
recalling a longgon era , bisons , leopards and deer stare glassily from the walls .
in akhara bazaar other interesting buys include woolen socks , a small quilt called gudma , and grass slippers ( known as pullan ) made for goat hair and bhang fibre .
at the top stage , the mirror reflected sunlight during the day while fire was used during the night .
the dark-colored camels come from gujarat and the female camels are prized for their milk-producing capacity .
maharashtra , restless yet serene , familiar yet mysterious , this western stunner of a state is full of colorful surprises .
but the city has donned a more contemporary face as a major industrial centre for pharmaceuticals , automobiles , textiles and electronics and as the gateway to the cave temples of ajanta & ellora .
few tourists venture far from brazil 's spectacular beaches but a trip into the interior reveals a different brazil , one with a great deal to offer the visitor .
you can stay in on of the five spacious suites , some with aging punkahs , each with its own verandah .
india travel destinations makes the place and its small and cheap shopping opportunity available to you by arranging for a trip to this unique hill station in india .
driven by a dynamic government , andhra pradesh has taken strides towards development and is today much better off than it was 10 years ago .
a spectacular road journey up and over the nag pahar ( snake mountain ) brings you to the holy town of ( 11 km away ) , on the banks of the picturesque pushkar lake .
patwon ki haveli is one of the largest and most elaborate havelis in jaisalmer , it is five stories high and extensively carved .
bangalore , capital of karnataka , is called the garden city for its delicate blossoms and greenery that impart a unique beauty to this lovely city .
the damanganga river divides this sleepy little union territory in two , with its three main towns , silvassa , khanvel and dadra to the north , while the western gahts rise up in the south .
fly , flap , flutter , float with over 9 , 000 feathered friends from 600 species , jurong birdpark is one of asia pacific s most impressive bird parks .
in goa the colourful flea markets are famous , but it is the lovely old villas that hide the best shopping from antiques to haute couture .
fagu is another peculiar picnic spot in shimla , which can serve as an ideal honeymoon destination in india as part of the shimla circuit , for honeymooners in india .
up tourism organizes the taj mahotsav every year between 18th and 27th february .
there 's so much you can do , study temple and churches , stroll through whispering coconut groves .
also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize .
mon , in this village , shop for wood carvings , guns and gunpowder ( we re not suggesting anything ) , headgear and necklace .
located approximately 862 kilometers south of bangkok is phuket , thailand 's largest island .
away from hustle and bustle chail is quit peaceful and comfortable place to visit .
honeymooners in india can option for khajuraho if they have a feel for a classy type outing and also a yen for the indian historicity .
on the way to mussoorie , stop at the now defunct toll gate , kolhu khet , for the most amazing pakoras and tea .
the insectivorous pitcher plant is very rare , and the clouded leopard , golden cat , slow loris and peacock pheasant are only a few out of the many species of fauna found in the state .
green valleys with turbulent rivers , rhododendron forests teeming with countless wildlife are aside .
the southeastern half was acquired from great britain in 1818 when the international line with canada was fixed at the 49th parallel .
nebraska city and other towns on the missouri river became shipping centers and supplied both the military outposts and the new settlers .
the first permanent settlement was established in 1851 when another group settled at pembina .
some call it the most beautiful place in matheran .
the best time to visit ajmer is of course during the festival of urs .
a land of mirth and merriment , rarely a month passes without a festival or two .
and when it fell , `` few people can make their arms meet round the thumb `` , wrote pliny .
before madame tussaud had established herself in london , her collection of wax figures toured all around the country in wagons and caravans .
although it disappeared from existence , the ancient world wonder inspired modern artists such as french sculptor auguste bartholdi best known by his famous work .
jantar mantar , one of the five observatories built by maharaj jai singh , in 1718 .
more than 200 artisans from all over india ply their wares and encourage the loosing of your purse strings .
the lighthouse continues to be mentioned in their writings and travelers accounts .
today , tourists are surprised by the fact that there is always something new to discover chiang mai .
panja durries of panipat those are truely unique .
mysore was the capital city of hyder ali , tipu sultan and the entire wodeyar clan .
the state highway that connects the two cities could provide a pleasant ride through rustic country side .
the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttaranchal are the most popular destinations for trekkers , though chamba and manali in himachal pradesh , and ladakh and zanskar in jammu and kashmir , have interesting trekking routes as well .
there are almost 120 shrines located inside the temple .
the church is dedicated to infant jesus and also has statuses of six saints .
come to arunachal pradesh , the last frontier , for a close encounter with nature , or culture , or an especially tranquil retreat .
sit around a bonfire ; listen to the local elvis belting out the blues , and share cheese and munchies while sipping homemade wine .
clear skies and low temperatures provide series of uninterrupted sessions .
authentic down to its creaking floorboards , the planter s club offers you a charming glimpse into tea garden luxury .
the convenience comforts and pleasure that you ll find in strolling around this bright space is just wonderful .
hazrat miran was the governor of ajmer at some point of time in history .
the best time to visit kullu is during dusshera in the month of october .
khorat has an abundance of natural attractions in its forests , hills , wildlife and waterfalls that are easily accessible in locations such as khao yai national park .
another convenient way to travel to and from singapore changi airport is to take the maxicab , a six-seater taxi shuttle service operating daily from 0600 hrs to midnight .
the german bakery is one of the best places for a scrumptious breakfast , it is known for such baked goodies as cakes , cookies , muffins and doughnuts .
you will find many couples sitting on it with the taj mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit .
the first clear record of african-americans in arkansas is from 1721 , more than a hundred years before statehood .
ajmer the city where the dargah of the great sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage .
green bay became the center of the wisconsin fur trade , and nicolet formally claimed the entire region for france in 1686 .
initially the predominant cultural influence in the city was that of the dvaravati culture , however , it was later replaced by the khmer culture .
the ambience may be a little kitschy , but it is really quite charming .
there are live classical and folk performances , as well as mango-eating competitions for the ambitious and you ll leave with the sweetest taste in your mouth .
you also get to watch naga woman at work on their traditional looms , weaving the beautiful shawls .
nestled in the lush hills and hidden away behind rows of tree s , lord s central is a lovely old parsi establishment offering stunning view of the sahyadri hills .
amidst a refreshing and aesthetically appealing environment , the park offers a one-stop solution integrating office , production , commercial , residential and recreational needs in a single location .
another temple dedicated to lord shiva is the someshwara temple built by kempe gowda in ulsoor .
the columns were 20 m ( 60 ft ) high with ionic capitals and carved circular sides .
the forbidden city is divided into two parts , the southern section , or the outer court was where the emperor exercised his supreme power over the nation and the northern section , or the inner court was where he lived with his royal family .
iridescent kingfishers , pink flamingos , pelican s rare species of eagles and much more , gujarat is sure to delight bird watchers from all over the world .
pattaya city is located on the eastern coast of the country at latitude 13 n and longitude 101 e in the area of chon buri province .
for local food , try the simple stalls in bara bazaar or the dhabas in zodin square .
during the american revolution , there was relatively little fighting within the state , but many north carolinians saw action elsewhere .
the economic ruin was hastened by the extravagant habits of both the rulers and the ministers .
from the classical compositions of villa-lobos , to the soft sounds of bossa nova to the driving beat of samba , brazil has developed music of striking sophistication , quality , and diversity .
the pykara dam , pykara falls and the reservoir attracts many tourists .
the great wall starts from shanhaiguan pass in the east to jiayuguan pass in the west traversing provinces of liaoning , hebei , beijing , tianjin , shanxi , inner mongolia , ningxia , shaanxi and gansu .
the baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot .
chail has also the highest cricket ground in the world .
raffles was an extraordinary and energetic man of wide-ranging interests .
thrissur pooram , a 30-hour long festival in the summer is known for its caparisoned elephant processions .
every february march there is a dance festival held here called siddhendra yogi dance festival .
if you like your food robust and full of flavour look no further than the signature north-west frontier cuisine at baluchi .
windows shopping can t get any better than here , in shilaramam .
the china great wall academy has called for greater protection of this important relic .
the sri parthasarathy temple is located in triplicane in chennai , india .
most of echo tourism areas are in natural parks and specific historical-cultural areas .
spread over grassy lawns dotted with rocks and tinkling waterfalls , this scenic art and crafts village lets you buy straight from the artesian even as you watch them at work .
britto affords beautiful views , especially at night , with the lighthouse at fort aguada on the left and baga hill jutting out on the right .
for a visit to the gurudwaras , head covering is required , simple scarves or handkerchiefs will suffice .
beginning in the 1870s , residents from northern states visited florida as tourists to enjoy the state s natural beauty and mild climate .
it includes two zoological gardens , to quote a natural scientist .
from the top , you get a commanding view of the entire fort complex , and were used by akbar and his consorts .
inland waterways which flow above land level are an amazing feature of this region .
from 1089 to 1101 a. d . , king harsha ruled kashmir .
the mausoleum was completed around 350 bc , three years after maussollos death , and one year after artemisia 's .
residents also contributed to the violence that tore kansas apart after the passage of the kansas-nebraska act in 1854 .
the distinctive feature of the muchhal mahavira temple is the statue of lord mahavira with a moustache .
all over sikkim , steaming momos and the convenient one dish meal thukpa are irresistible .
the region is quite uninhabited , so the visitor must bring along all food and camping equipment .
in a city of gardens that bangalore is , the cubbon is a premier attraction for all those who seek some respite from the busy metropolitan life here .
the adilabad district is bounded by maharastra state in the east , west and north directions , karimnagar and nizamabad districts in the south direction .
there are nature parks and picnic spots at kufri .
the laotian influence is evident in the architectural structure of some of the city 's religious buildings of ubon ratchathani .
jakarta is uniquely the seat of both the national as well as the regional government .
there is a light at the top of the tower which , when lit , indicates that the house of commons is sitting .
choose from the accessories such as beads or pendants , furniture , screens , statues , toys stationary items and even bookmarks made from sandalwood .
cochin was once an insignificant fishing village .
you ll find tibetan carpets , cds with folk music and chants , herbs , thangkas ; mask , and idols of the buddha .
for those who want to turn cycling into a keenly contested game , in rajasthan there is cycle polo too .
there are three gateways into the fort , which is surrounded by a 7 meter wall .
lal bagh , these 240-acre gardens were laid out during the muslim era ( 18th century ) by hyder ali and tipu sultan , 200 years ago .
nalwari fair is an essence a cattle fair , held in month of march in bilaspur .
another must check out is tehsil singh ka dhaba , a great favourite with locals .
a perfect combination of arts and design , city palace is known for its advancement in technology and architecture .
you will relive the daily routines and special events as captured by the artists while you are exploring the 750 caves .
nathu garden , dimapur , stay in cottage built to resemble traditional naga huts , but with all modern facilities at your fingertrips .
meanwhile , the great influx of miners was redirected to farming , trade , and business .
there are evidences of the existence of the pre-historic humans in this region .
the barge also travels as far as regent 's park where you can be dropped in the middle of the famous london zoo .
entertainment is limited to cinema halls that screen hindi and bengali movies .
the plan to build a tower 300 meters high was conceived as part of preparations for the world 's fair of 1889 .
most hotels are in the middle budget category and these will charge upwards of rs.200 for a double room with attached bath .
there is a small mosque on the second floor , which is the oldest in hyderabad .
the ganges river , which forms the backbone of uttar pradesh , is the holy river of hinduism and there are several important pilgrimage towns along it .
the city palace was built by maharaja jai singh ii and is a synthesis of mughal & rajasthani architecture .
frenchmen established the first european settlement on the lower mississippi near the arkansas river .
however , the most convenient railhead is guwahati ( assam ) , which is very well connected to the rest of india .
ask around discreetly though , and you ll find that every second stall stocks chhang .
khorat 's most popular annual event is the thao suranari festival , a celebration of thao suranari 's victory over the lao .
the construction of imperial bombay continued well into the 20th century .
this temple is located at a distance of 8 kilometers from bageshwar and is popular for a large cave that enshrines idols of the hindu deity lord shiva .
the state offers a whole bouquet of experience for tourists just place a finger anywhere on state s map and you will find a place of interest .
at that time it was still called barking abbey although it was no longer a monastic abbey .
you can take a look at some of the 81 hindu temples in the area .
great britain obtained the area after the french and indian wars in 1763 .
chiang mai s rich traditional heritage and unique culture is a perfect foundation for the development of the city .
if you are not one of those who like breathing through a pipe 15 feet under water , take one of the glass-bottomed boats available .
chonburi is a popular resort among bangkokians who seek the nearest escape from hectic weekly schedules as chon buri has something for everyone .
nandgaon is famous for its ganapati temple and the annual fair held in honor of this elephant headed god every february .
it was named `` patna `` in the 16th century under the great afghan king , sher shah suri .
the architecture of the buildings of chamba reflects the aura of its former rulers .
the siddhendra yogi s dilapidated dance school has today been transformed into a lovely fine arts collage called siddhendra kalakshetra .
phi phi islands , together with the nearby noppharat thara beach , a total area of 390 square kilometers , were recently established as a national park .
bricky gate tower carved with lively and ingenious figures which tell the historic stories or show the good wishes , make it a rare artwork .
since then , the great wall has served as a monument of the chinese nation throughout history .
this will not only be a chance to get acquainted with the hardworking tribals of orissa , but also to sample authentic oriya cuisine .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
opt for black lotus if you want some great oriental food and the rooms here are plush , spacious and the personalized service makes al the difference .
there are 50 , 000 manuscripts written in many languages apart from artifacts in mogao caves .
by daybreak , the ingredients transforms into the divine nehari , , a thin spicy soup that gets its unique flavour from potli , containing sandalwood powder , rose petals , votives roots , camphor and 27 other spices .
the small village of lava , located at 2 , 353 m above sea level and about 30 km east of kalimpong , is an important place to visit .
the main mountaineering locales are in the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttar pradesh .
once the tranquil hilltop retreat of meditating rishis , mount abu was considered to be a holy spot , inhabited by no less than 330 million different gods and goddesses .
the history of elephanta is the hoary mists of time .
foreigners however are served alcoholic drinks at some hotels upon showing their passports .
late in the 1800s numerous immigrants from finland , poland , and czechoslovakia also settled in minnesota .
mandi is comparatively hotter than other hill stations of himachal pradesh .
the judge s court heritage resort relies entirely on local , organic produce and flavours to rustle up himachali food in pragpur .
honeymoon in shimla can be a gratifying experience going by the itinerary of places , which are on offer .
fatehpur sikiri is a city built in red sandstone .
the bharatpur museum is a major source to have a date with the past royal glory of the place .
communities shared common cultural ground in terms of buddhism , trading , governance , and architecture in thailand .
rich in both fire and flavour , and laced with more than a hint of portugal , goan cuisine is defined by the bounty of the sea .
overnight luxury buses connect aurangabad from mumbai ( 12 hours ) via pune or manmad .
there are buses to badami from bijapur , bangalore , hubli , gadag and ilkal .
the city of ajmer was founded in the 7th century by raja ajaipal chauhan who named it ajaimer or the invincible hill .
jodhpur has some festivals that are special if not unique to it , the kite festival of jodhpur being one of them .
pataudi palace is vow a hotel , and one of the most special places to stay in haryana .
annual festival arthunkal perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810 , the church is dedicated to st george .
kalamkari , the art of dyeing with vegetable oils and colors , still flourishes and silk sarees woven in the state rank among the most beautiful in the world .
built in akbars favorite style in red sandstone , this 8 square kilometer complex houses several buildings , which are an amalgamation of hindu and islamic architecture .
within the dargah lies a mosque , built by the mughal emperor shah jahan .
the descendants of the mississippians were the illiniwek tribes of the 17th , 18th , and 19th centuries .
tourist lodge inside sephijala wildlife sanctuary , living amidst these tranquil surrounds will be an experience difficult to forget , or match .
gangtok road is an important attraction near kalimpong .
a tour to the rain soaked silhouettes of lakkidi would enable the tourists to decipher the same magic .
meditate and practice yoga in the amphitheatre and reward yourself with mud baths and massages .
adjacent rooms contain 17th and 18th century murals illustrating scenes from indian epics like the ramayana and mahabharata .
a bulbous white double dome majestically crowns the taj .
pattaya s exotic beach resort welcomes approximately 5 million visitors a year .
although covent garden is usually packed with visitors , the area remains attractive and vibrant .
to honor chan and muk , a monument was established at tha ruea intersection , 12 kilometers to the north of phuket city in 1966 .
the concept of london being made up of a series of villages is illustrated no better than in the delightful north london suburb of hampstead .
being situated very close to the sea , cochin has a moderate climate .
he has many other features like omnipresence , eternality , and formlessness , though independence is peculiar to him .
but it is the frequent rains that send the relative humidity levels zooming up through out the year .
a giant electronic quartz flower clock is also in the garden of all bag .
though the city has well equipped shops , branded cosmetics and toiletries may not be easily available but items like camera films etc are easily and widely available .
also try shantipur , fulia , guptipara and samudragarh in nadia district , 75 km from kolkata ; and begumpur , rajbalhat and dhanekhali in hooghly district , 47 km from kolkata .
travelers will enjoy the country 's abundant fauna and flora and spectacular scenery consisting of huge glaciers , fjords , waterfalls , blue lakes and numerous national parks where trekking is a very popular activity amongst tourists .
soaring high coniferous forests and flower meadows welcome the trekker .
ajmer is connected with bus from all places like jaipur , agra , aligarh , abu road , bikaner , bharatpur , barmer , haridwar , chittorgarh , jodhpur , jaisalmer and nagaur .
the museum is open from 10 am to 5 pm every day except friday .
for a kick , it s mahua liquor , distilled from dried mahua flowers .
gradually this demographic shift was to change the character of the city altogether .
according to tang dynasty records , a monk had witnessed onsite a vision of thousand buddhas under showers of golden rays .
khajuraho will enthrall you with the craftsmanship of its world famous carvings , while the ancient paintings of bheembetka will take you back to the prehistoric times .
tours to manali in himachal pradesh opens up new vistas of nature seeking before us with all its resplendent glory .
we are also great hosts and believe that the guest is god , so we will do our utmost to make sure they are happy and contented .
kenwood house with its outdoor summer concerts and fine collection of art is worth a visit as is the nearby spaniards inn .
a healthy budget in punjab is about $ 35 a day that will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
there s no television , no phones and no recreation facilities at all you ll feel deliciously cut off from the rest of the world .
pick a puan , the traditional mizo shawl , from the colourful local market here .
you ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many indians believe that curiosity conveys concern .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
the diwanekhas entirely unique in its concept is a tall vaulted room with an intricately carved central pillar and capital supporting a platform that once held the emperor 's throne .
try ubadya at kamat s ni wadi , a garden restaurant at the kamat s resort in silvassa .
ikat weaves from orissa are classic and enduring fabric art ; the colours , weaves , dyes , and motifs are perhaps the most beautiful of all indian textiles .
the bilaspur dam height is 225 meter and that dam is highest in the world .
between 1783 and 1785 , the georgia assembly rotated between savannah and augusta , and the governor divided his official residence between the two cities .
darjeeling and sikkim also have some trekking routes .
spain , which had become the wealthiest european nation during the 16th century , saw its wealth decline during the 17th century .
shopaholics will find plenty to intrigue in the central market , greenwich 's answer to petticoat lane , with an emphasis on vintage clothing .
jakarta 's cultural richness and dynamic growth contribute significantly to its growing importance as one of the world 's leading capital cities .
close to the fort complex , jaswant thada the 19th century cenotaph was built in white marble , in commemoration of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
for centuries the people of the valley had been suffering from the recurring curse of famines and floods .
boats to the sangam , used by pilgrims and tourists alike , can be rented at the ghat immediately east of the fort .
both these architectural marvels figure on the world heritage list .
lavi festival is famous for its chinese handcrafted jewellery , carpets , wool , shawls , dry fruits and cahumkhi horses brought for sale .
it was only in 1912 that kolkata ceased to be the capital when it was shifted to lutyen 's delhi .
check with your travel agent , or enquire about homestay options in the tourist information centre at kohima or dimapur .
you ll find a staggering variety of leather goods in kanpur .
a visit to gwalior is not complete until you sample th gajak , a seasame coated sweets , mixed with ghee and flavoured with cardamom .
kentucky chose to be known as a commonwealth , meaning government based on the common consent of the people and dating to the time of oliver cromwell s england .
when the address you re heading to is by the sea , you know you ve booked the right place .
laad bazaar is also the heart of hyderabad s pearl trade , but use your discretion and don t forget to bargain .
however , manmad , 113km northwest of aurangabad is the closest junction for major trains from across the country .
andhra pradesh , once a part of the mauryan empire during the reign of ashoka , became an important buddhist centre .
the principal crop of this area is rice , and other important crops include maize , millets , wheat , pulses , potato , sugarcane and oilseeds .
though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports , hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as pune , delhi , chandigarh , shimla , mumbai , devlali , bangalore and kalaheti .
emperor qin shihuang succeeded in his effort to have the walls joined together to fend off the invasions from the huns in the north after the unification of china .
taragarh palace welcomheritage resort is set in a wonderfully landscape garden in the beautiful valley of kangra .
one can also stay in the golden temple complex .
khimsar is located on the route between jodhpur and bikaner .
allahabad has been rich in numerous victorian and georgian buildings made in synthesis with indian architectural traditions .
since then it has been home for many members of the royal family , including edward vii and alexandria , when they were prince and princess of wales .
a sign posted walk runs along the path of the wall between these two locations .
most of these temples are magnificent examples of indian art and architecture .
pakistani liaison officer would accompany all mountaineering expeditions .
accessible only by boat , hat tham phra nang , this stunning , pristine beach has fine-grained white sand and crystalline waters as well as magnificent jagged karsts .
spend some time feasting your eyes on the shivalik ranges , doon valley , dakpather and asan barrage .
the kamakhya devi temple is situated on top of the neelachala parvat that is popularly known as kamagiri .
the burmese conquered the lanna kingdom in 1556 ending the dynasty founded by king meng rai that lasted over 250 years .
the great wall of china , this legend has been spread widely through textbooks , folk songs and traditional operas .
the pillar was brought from the buddhist site of kausambi by emperor akbar and has the edicts of emperor ashoka inscribed on it .
the snake park will interest of visitors of all ages .
designed by inigo jones for king james i ( 1603-25 ) and completed in 1622 , the banqueting house was originally built for occasions of state , plays and masques .
patna museum houses about 57 , 000 items of archeological importance and also has a collection of 22 , 000 old coins .
the forbidden city , now known as the palace museum , it is to the north of tiananmen square .
orissa version of tie-and-dye , ikat is one of the most popular and internationally well-known handicrafts of this state .
in jammu , the winter capital of the state , the serenity of patnitop spells magic and the shrine of vaishno devi attracts millions each year .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor .
all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the building is crowned with a dome shaped like an inverted lotus .
the gajner wildlife sanctuary is 32 kms away from the bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds .
nathmalji-ki-haveli , one very interesting fact about this haveli is that its two sides were carved by two brothers .
most of the tourist spots in chhattisgarh are waiting to be explored .
leading designer wendell rodericks also retails here at casa goa .
other europeans may have reached florida earlier , but no firm evidence of such achievement has been found .
the grand canyon state or copper state , arizona takes its name from the indian word arizonac , meaning `` little spring `` or `` young spring .
it houses a variety of indian snakes and reptiles which can be viewed from close quarters .
for instance , the jahangiri palace built by akbar is a good blend of islamic ( persian ) and different local hindu styles .
the distance between these two gates is 960 meters , while the distance between the gates in the east and west walls is 750 meters .
a flower show along with an exhibition of rare plant species is held every year in the month of may at botanical garden .
surrounded by tea , coffee and vanilla plantations , explore the many walking trails leading into the hills around .
the end of this first thai kingdom occurred in 1365 when it became a vassal state of ayutthaya , a young and rising power to the south .
locals usually dwell in groups of houses , speak their own dialects and practice their traditionally handed down cultures .
a former capital of the srivijaya empire , the province covers an area of approximately 12 , 891 square kilometers .
add to that an amazing array of flora and fauna , in a unique habitat with glaciers , high altitude meadows and subtropical forests .
the jungle lodge overlooks the river , teeming with carp , catfish ad famously , the mahaseer .
some of the interesting places that you may visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal are the sidh peeths .
kerala shares its western border with the arabian sea .
one of the most challenging motor rallies is the himalayan car rally .
at 8 700 feet above sea level , malam jabba ski resort stands on top of a mountain of the hindukush range , north east of saidu sharif .
in a buzzing atmosphere , you can find a great variety at more reasonable prices than the emporia .
founded by rukmini devi arundale in 1936 , the institution is devoted to the revival of traditional dance , textile designing , and weaving which are taught in naturally harmonious environs .
animals found in the thick forests of uttar pradesh include the endangered royal bengal tiger , panther , snow leopard , jackals , hyenas , sambhar , cheetal , musk deer , chinkara , nilgai , brown bear , mountain goat and elephants .
rainwear is a must if you are visiting between june and september .
one of the largest open air markets in the country , lewduh in shillong is quite an amazing experience for even the most reluctant of shoppers .
mario de andrade , the great authority on national folklore , has classified these dance dramas into four principal groups : reisados , chegancas , pastoris , and ranchos .
ko kra has some of the best coral in thailand , but no less spectacular are the golden sands of ko mak and the bays of ko ngarm .
at the sangam , the waters of the ganges and the yamuna can be distinctly seen to merge into one .
what used to be the favorite summer getaway of tipu sultan is now a popular picnic spot with its awesome fort , sprawling lawns and two ancient temples .
in spite of this entire karkota rule on the whole has been considered as the glorious and remarkable periods of ancient kashmir .
indian narain kartikeyan has already made a name for himself in the high speed world of motor racing .
at the outbreak of the civil war , louisiana became an independent republic for six weeks before joining the confederacy .
this ancient temple was constructed in the 18th century .
it was here that he sojourned during the rule of maharaja birchandra manikya .
sheermal milk bread is a kind of roti that was first made in lucknow by a cook called muhammaden .
take a dekko at the red brick gothic clock tower .
the gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh , which symbolizes the gardens of paradise in islam .
after his death in 1707 , the city was taken over by the nizam of hyderabad who retained control till it was merged with maharashtra in 1956 .
pattadakal is also an important site for the study of the development of temple architecture in south .
the people removed both the silt and stones when the great engineer threw plenty of gold and silver coins into the river at many places .
opened in 1943 replacing a former pontoon bridge , it is today one of the busiest bridges in the world .
the most ancient of the holy abodes is the vimal vashi temple , which is dedicated to the first tirthankar , constructed by vimal shah , a gujrati merchant .
these jain temples are famous for their architectural style , intricately carved and ornamented walls , ceilings , pillars , panels and doorways .
treat yourself to a hearty breakfast of bacon and sausages , accompanied by steaming lemon tea , on the rooftop at keventer s .
akbars sleeping chambers , the khwabgah ( house of dreams ) had water channels to cool the air .
central sulawesi is one of regional in indonesia that has compatible solidarity between natural beauties , cultural properties and long history .
general dyer , who was charged to enforce law and order in the region , marched up to the ground with his troops and blocked the narrow entrance .
in the deep recesses of simlipal forests , forest rest house may not offer five star luxuries , but its location more than makes up for it .
space flight , dinosaurs alive , dynamotion , life in water , a world of insects and reptiles , walkthrough aviary , butterfly corner , convention centre , four seminar halls , mini auditorium , musical fountain and many others .
located at one of the crossroads of the world , singapore 's strategic position has helped it grow into a major centre for trade , communications and tourism .
purwar museum , wonderful personal collection is housed in a lovely haveli and is the work of a retired doctor mr. purwar .
jakarta has preserved its past and is developing for the future .
by 1856 , each of the five civilized tribes established territorial boundaries in the frontier .
designed by renowed architect charles correa , this resort offers both accommodation and water sport facilities .
accommodation in cozy nook includes thatched huts , tree houses , and trendy cottages with quirky bathrooms .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of online reservation for tours to historical monuments in mandu in madhya pradesh , india .
there are four important dilwara temples at mount abu and these are the luna vashi temple , vimal vashi temple , parshvanath temple and the adinath temple .
most hotels offer in-room international direct dial ( idd ) telephone services .
there is nothing to beat bengal s cotton saris , crisp and so elegant .
the restaurant serves nine cuisine ( hence the name including vietnamese , middle eastern and indonesian .
if you go to the front gate between 3pm and 4pm , you may get an entry pass .
from sheesh mahal you can see palaces , cenotaphs , and the spires of the ramrajya and cahturbhuj temple .
the british tried to suppress this incident , but it created a furor in the entire nation .
tipu 's drop , a 600-metre high cliff offers a fantastic view of the plains down below .
indira gandhi , the daughter of jawaharlal nehru and later prime minister of india was born here .
don t go out to sea if the weather is threatening to turn stormy for windsurfing .
the enchanting beauty of kashmir is evident in its lofty mountain ranges , lush green meadows , fascinating glaciers and tranquil waterbodies .
indian nationals need no permission for trekking in any area , outside the inner line .
the construction work began in january 1887 and was finished on march 31 , 1889 .
the calmness of place provides a soothing effect to the tired tourists .
these kings were great patrons of art and culture and mysore was the cultural capital of the south under the rule of the wodeyars .
visitors may fix an appointment with the concerned authorities prior to the visit .
i never leave without some of keventer s chocolates .
motel is equipped with all mod cons , but the peace and the quite is broken only by the roar of the dhuandhar falls , a short distance away .
trango towers is the highest granite tower and considered to be the finest rock pinnacle in the world .
the chequered history of allahabad with its religious , cultural and historical ethos also gave rise to several renowned scholars , poets , writers , thinkers , statesmen and leaders .
bangalore is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
militants had rebelled against the rule of law and believed they were fighting to protect the interests of the original inhabitants of the state .
for thousands of years , the yellow river has been admiring by literary giants , artists , as well as by the common people .
their poor performance led to their removal .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to jammu and kashmir , india .
come to heranca goesa for fantastic portuguese goan cuisine at amazingly affordable prices .
mahaprasad , jagannath temple , if over 400 cooks prepare something everyday , it has to be special .
some of the ancient temples that you may visit during your temple tours to varanasi in uttar pradesh , india are the kashi-vishwanath temple , durga temple , annapura bhavani , laat bhairava and the sankata devi temple .
the best time to visit agra is between november and march .
the sanjay gandhi botanical garden is situated on the famous baily road and has numerous birds and animals .
changing money anywhere in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
when troops tried to enter the complex , many were mowed down by bullets .
ever since a huge fair is held at this location every year on the festival of shivratri .
the tank in the centre , fed by natural springs , is said to have supplied charnock with drinking water , historical buildings surround the square .
saraswati festival is celebrated throughout india but takes on special significance in kerala .
started as a joint venture between the railway and mtdc , deccan odyssey train ride is the most luxurious way to explore some of the best location in maharashtra .
from april 3 , 1860 to october 24 , 1861 , pony express riders carried their mail across the area .
varkala beach ( 54 km from thiruvananthapram ) , is a sea lover 's favourite for the enchanting seclusion on offer .
the museums situated in the heart of the city at egmore were founded in 1857 .
cozy nook resort has a communal chill out areas , where you can play chess , read a book or listen to music .
lying at the center of beijing , the forbidden city , called gu gong in chinese , was the imperial palace during the ming and qing dynasties .
a magnificent royal palace and the hunting lodge built by maharaja vinay singh in 1845 a . d . for his queen shila stands overlooking the lake .
secunderabad , which is part of hyderabad , originally developed around a british cantonment , set up in 1798 .
if you are more interested in exploring the national park , it is better to aim for drier seasons in order to ensure access to the majority of trails .
the first european to see virginia may have been john cabot , who reached the north american coast for england in 1497 and may have explored it the next year .
fishing vessels were adapted to become tourist boats and swimmers and sunbathers from various parts of the world frequented the quiet powdery golden beaches .
in 1931 nine black youths ( scottsboro boys ) are arrested in paint rock and jailed in scottsboro , the jackson county seat .
bangana-lathian-piplu attract tourist during winter season especially , when they propose to visit other religious places like jogi ponga and naina deviji .
tv courts of solo embody the noble value that the javanese attach to grace and refinement , with majestic ceremonies and royal festivals still held with great pomp and circumstance .
the colorful dresses of the kinnauri women and their sweet folk songs make the valley all the more bright and cheerful .
home to the largest brackish water lake in india apart from lush , serene wildlife sanctuaries , orissa is a natural lover s paradise .
all official transactions and meetings are held in lucknow , the administrative capital while kanpur is an important industrial and commercial centre .
during winter , heavy snow separate the valleys from the rest of the world for six months while in the summer , temperatures over 100 degrees are common .
the bush administration inherited ' plan colombia ' after victory at the us november 2000 poll and endorsed the plan with some modifications .
only a third of the 2 , 500 , 000 rivets used in the construction of the tower were inserted directly on site .
excitement abounds in the origin , vicissitude and nature of the great wall of the qin , han , and ming dynasties .
a huge dome , rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the taj mahal .
the city thrived commercially and had strong economic ties with their main ally , ptolemy i soter of egypt .
there are direct international flights from muscat , singapore and sharjah , and indirect connections via mumbai from new york , london , paris and the middle east .
the esplanade 's acclaimed acoustics system has impressed many international artistes and audiences .
north of ko pha-ngan is ko tao , renowned for its excellent coral reefs .
contact the conservator of forests in agartala for booking accommodation in the forest bungalow here , which has well kept gardens and provides reasonably good food .
the wise thing to do is to hire a car with a driver if you want to get the many tourist spots within and outside the city .
buses usually travel in convoys with armed escorts .
most of the handicrafts available , pots and curios are conveniently sized and make for great gifts .
tipu sultan preserved the ganesha temple as a testament to his religious tolerance .
the santhome cathedral was built by the portuguese between the 14th and the 15 century ad and derived its name after st. thomas .
jaipur 's regal heritage is evident in its architecture and culture .
so walk in and rediscover tourself at this exclusive spa , an experience you woll not forget in a hurry .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
when a peace agreement was reached in 304 bc , the antagonids lifted the siege , leaving a wealth of military equipment behind .
the national maritime museum is home to the world 's largest maritime historical reference library , as well as a wealth of nautical exhibits and artifacts .
nanking is a nondescript restaurant which initiated hyderabadis to chinese and cuisine and continues to indulge them with its conventional yet irresistible fare .
bidar , a town in north karnataka , is a centre for a unique style of engraving .
at one point the track climbs to 130 meters after a journey of 1.4 kilometers .
for those in search of peace and tranquility , himachal s buddhist soul is alive in places like dharamshala and spiti .
dedicated to khusrau , the rebel son of emperor jahangir , the garden holds his mausoleum .
it is believed that kalidasa the 4th century sanskrit poet and play wright choose the setting for its masterpiece `` abhigyana shakuntalam `` in nag paharthe snake s forest heritage .
the stately tombs of the qutub shahi rulers lie just outside the outer wall of the golconda fort .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
there are also ups and downs in the artistic quality over the centuries , depending on the fortunes of buddhism with available art patronage .
demand for tickets to buckingham palace is high .
khao phanom bencha national park has pristine , lush forest on its highest peaks .
crossing the two crisscross rivers ( yinzi creek and nabeishi river ) and connecting at the middle , twin bridges look like a chinese old-style chinese key .
parasailing is a sport , which is a combination of skydiving and para gliding both being high on adrenaline sports , rolled in to one .
fast on old favorites like aloo , gobhi , paneer and palak paranthas , but to experience the parantha at its most elevated try unusual innovations like the kaju badam parantha , stuffed with dry fruits .
the south pier was rigged anew in 1983 with a small electrically driven elevator by otis to take customers up to the jules verne restaurant .
out of the fort there is the church of our lady of remedios , completed in 1607 , and one of the oldest churches in india .
all help recreate a visual delight reminiscent of the golden era of the mughal darbars .
the tharpa choling monastery has a library of tibetan manuscripts and thankas which can be visited .
legend has it that the mughal emperor , akbar came here to the saint in the 16th century in quest of a boon for an heir and the saint obliged .
south carolina , officially separated from north carolina in 1729 , was the scene of extensive military action during the revolution and again during the civil war .
the raghunath temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord rama .
the kishanpur sanctuary located about 30 km from dudhwa , is the other constituent of the reserve .
its success is unquestionable , as is its popularity with tourists and londoners alike .
the government museum located at ooty boasts of tribal handicrafts , regional ecological details peppered with attractive handicrafts of tamil nadu .
hill palace museum has an interesting collection of paintings , antique temple carvings and other royal artifacts .
nepal-a country with a long historic tradition is an amalgamation of a number of medieval principalities .
hat rai le ( rai le beach ) beach is generally divided into two sections , east and west .
indeed , the market now draws in 100 , 000 every weekend and sells virtually anything that can be placed on a market stall .
marlin , sailfish , tuna , huge garoupa and every kind of shark imaginable are a boat ride from shore .
birla mandir is a splendid temple built entirely out of white marble .
khajuraho as a major honeymoon destination in india is a collection of sculpture and wall murals , which are very explicit in nature .
early morning tea on the verandah , looking out onto the gorge below , will make your trip entirely worth it .
another alcoholic drink is sulfi , a milky drink made from the fermented sap of the sago palm tree .
the setting at the mango tree is the backyard of a traditional home , under a massive mango tree with a swing .
it is nestled in the outer inclines of dhaulandhar range .
much of nilgiri hills covers a couple of states and tamil nadu being very prominent among them .
the khumbu region of nepal is one of the best-known treks in the world .
vizag , as it is commonly known , is the commercial and industrial heart of northeastern andhra pradesh .
pick up some traditional himachal woolen caps , which , by the way , are de rigeur in paris right now .
lovely thick shawls are available everywhere , especially in shimla , and make the perfect wrap for chilly winters .
if you are looking for cooking classes in the comfort of a singapore home , cookery magic is your choice .
situated in the compound of an old girls convent school , chijmes today is one of singapore s premier wine and dine destinations .
ajmer is a travel delight , bustling with activity and noise , sights and sound , it is a place that 's guaranteed to overwhelm the senses of any tourist .
the base was made of white marble , and the feet and ankle of the statue were first fixed .
with spicy masala mixes you can recreate the inimitable tastes and smells of goa in your own kitchen without spending hours at the mortar and pestle .
the kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees .
the huge , carved doors of the cabinet room are made of pure sandalwood .
colorfully dressed village folk add fun and gaiety to the event .
full of little hideaways , old and luxurious tea estate , and winding roads offering amazing view , darjeeling possesses a charm of its very own .
many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of lord buddha .
the presiding deity at the temple is called mansa devi and pilgrims worship the deity with coconuts , fruits , marigold garlands and incense sticks .
carry light woolens and rain protection no matter what the weather .
barnes high street leads from the pond to the river thames and is filled with small grocers , green grocers , bakers and butchers .
stone needed was quarried from fangshan , a suburb of beijing .
the historical significance of this temple lies in the fact that the 23rd jain tirthankara achieved nirvana here .
there was even talk of a bridge with a span wide enough to cross the english channel .
the centerpiece of this hall is the carved throne pillar , which supports a circular platform connected to the edges by four bridges .
the route to simla pass is along a heavy blanket of snow , and from here , the beautiful chhota kaikash peak is perennially in view .
similarly , because of forced halts on bad weather days a party shall pay to a porter full daily wages and rations or rations money in lieu thereof .
periods of democratic government alternated with dictatorships .
in the winters , temperatures may touch a low of 5 celsius .
shop for the clothes , shoes , watches and more take a break at one of the many small eateries that surrounds this area .
buy at mrignayani or avanti emporia in new market , bhopal or try ada bazaar in indore , where you get lovely lac bangles .
known as the oregon trail , it took thousands during the 1840s to the fertile willamette valley , where wheat , fruits , and vegetables thrived .
they placed clay statues in front of the cave walls , carved relief murals as backdrops , and painted the sidewalls and ceilings with art decors .
udaipur is situated in the southern part of rajasthan and surrounded by the aravalli range .
with the settlement of the eastern section by northern european and slavic groups , most parts of the state were occupied and the population reached 548 , 889 in 1920 .
the fortnight long extravaganza , held in december-january , illustrates the cultural diversity of the andamans .
dum aloo ( made without onion or garlic , the true kashmiri way ) , chaman ( paneer ) dishes , especially with methi , nadru ( lotusroot ) and haak , kashmiri spinach .
the most spectacular monument is prasat phanom rung in buri ram , a towering structure seated on top of an extinct volcano , which took over 17 years to restore .
opposite the museum , maratha s place provides for an easy going , laidback atmosphere with excellent home cooking on offer .
the social fabric in ajmer is a truly secular one with both hindus and muslims cutting across religious divides to revere its holy land .
taj is one of the wonders of the world .
the oberoi cecil is the perfect place to stay at if you want to enjoy a winter in shimla .
tarbela dam swabi is the biggest hydel power station in pakistan having a capacity of generating 3 , 478 mw of electricity .
it is easily available and recommended highly .
at-sunrice is located at fort canning centre , fort canning park .
dedicatory inscription of the lighthouse .
it is said that the right foot of sati ( shivas consort ) fell here and a ` peeth was constructed .
occupied for almost 700 years , the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
her macabre collection of relics from the french revolution , alongside portraits of torturers , villains and murderers , proved irresistible to the visiting public .
this ancient temple has been constructed in the north indian nagara architectural style .
the sudh mahadev temple in kashmir , india is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to kashmir , india .
the imposing white edifice was consecrated in 1679 ad , and continues to be an important place of worship .
the kincaid act increased the size of the homesteads from 160 to 640 acres .
unfortunately the building is not open to the public .
rahim near akbari gate in lucknow is the best in the city for all kinds of breads .
transit passengers who have a follow-on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
east java 's claim to fame in modern history is its vanguard role in the struggle for independence against colonial forces in 1945 .
apart from the jeep and elephant safaris into corbett park , you have a host of activities to choose from .
fly jet airways from mumbai to diu , there are more frequent flights to bhavnagar , which is three hours from diu by road .
the walls of the jain temple are adorned with colorful paintings depicting various incidents in the lives of the 24 tirthankaras of the jain religion .
when st paul visited ephesus to preach christianity in the first century ad , he was confronted by the artemis ' cult who had no plans to abandon their goddess .
with their heavy pallus , deep colors and intricately embroidery motifs , they are quite lovely .
from the tumultuous sea of puri and konark , rath yatra at puri the pilgrims wend their way to the jagannath temple and the exquisite sun temple .
to suppress these protests , the governor of the punjab province dwyer imposed a ban on public assemblies .
caught up in the vision of chandigarh as a modern city , people often overlook the great dhaba food that is available within the city .
get back in touch with both nature and spirituality amid the mountains and the monasteries .
in 1994 , the total population reached 4 , 265 , 900 people with its density amounted to 101 people per km2 .
on the other side is green park and past royal residences , lancaster house , marlborough house , spencer house and st james 's palace .
new ranchos were written every year and groups of dancers representing various districts of rio performed them .
this beautiful park at port blair has facilities like amusement rides , safe water sports , and nature trail around the lake , garden , restaurant and historic remains like japanese temple as well as a bunker .
the regencies and municipalities divided into district headed by camat and district divided into villages headed by lurah or kepala desa .
situated on the banks of the river yamuna , the taj mahal stands at the northern end of formal gardens .
brazil 's landscape is as diverse as the people who inhabit it .
with over 16 million acres , the navaho reservation is the nation s largest .
meanwhile , a third potent force emerged during the 1980s , in the form of organized drug traffickers ( known as cartels .
to buy khumbeu , try the state government and handloom emporium at ritz market , aizawl .
the 10 swiss tents and 36 cottages stand amid undulating greens and swishing palms .
the malai tangri kebab and palak paneer here are especially recommended .
hope that these wide open spaces will still beckon the traveler , and that the tribal culture that thrives here will remain untouched by commercialism and crowds .
international foreign exchange providers have several branches in the city .
it s always wise to check updated visa requirements prior to travel .
the birla mandir stands on a hill overlooking the south end of hussain sagar .
finding authentic himachali food is as difficult as looking for the proverbial needle in a haystack .
allahabad today is an important city where history , culture and religion create a confluence much like the sacred rivers that cares this god-graced land .
also situated here are the high court , the government museum , the technology museum , the govt. aquarium and the jawaharlal bal bhavan .
interestingly , one of the temples , chausat yogini is rumored to be haunted in khajuraho , a chief honeymoon destination in india .
then you arrive at the great expanse of the maidan , the heart of calcutta .
if you have a taste for fine wines , spirits and cigars , the cavalry bar is sure to be a satisfying experience .
today sections of this city wall are still visible , mingling among the office blocks .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
in canoa quebrada you will find spectacular beaches surrounded by rolling dunes and picturesque rocks .
an abundance of colorful coral reefs and lovely cartoon fishes make these islands ideal for diving and snorkeling .
a thrill a minute adventure sport where split second decisions can literally make or mar heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
the order included a bejeweled carpet from birmingham .
manali is also a gateway to lahaul and spiti .
the well known places of tourism are chowpathy beach , juhu beach , elephanta caves , good markets like crawford and chor bazaar are found here .
popular activities include sightseeing by canoe along the beachfront and paddling tours by inflatable canoes or kayaks of the coast and its mangrove forests , islands and semi-submerged caves .
take a couple of bottles of feni back home whether you want to gift them to your friends or enemies depend on your taste .
eco-tourism is more than a catch phrase for nature loving travel and recreation .
close by is a library in the ramakrishna ( vivekanandas guru ) kutir , which has a collection of books on religious philosophy .
spain claimed the area in 1706 , although no spanish settlements were established in colorado .
mogao sculptors improvised where the rock surface did not work well under their chisels .
as a honeymoon hotel in chennai , the chola sheraton is no mean in as a destination for honeymooners in india .
there s nothing as delicious as a kesar kulfi delicately flavoured with saffron , sprinkled with pistas and served on a bed of faluda , sweet vermicelli .
during the vietnam war , ubon encountered expansive growth due to its proximity to an american air base .
the palaniandavar temple is located at vadapalani in tamil nadu , india .
sea canoeing adventures from phuket take small groups of two passengers on inflatable kayaks , accompanied by a support boat carrying food and equipment .
the nanital boathouse club exclusively holds the man agreement of yachting in nainital .
it is impressively progressive in its political and administrative outlook .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord shiva .
the central chamber is octagonal , and in the centre is the tomb of the queen and to one side is the casket of the emperor .
stop in at the food court for some delicious grub .
hispanics , who may be of any race , are 8 percent of the people .
nepal has a population of more than 18 million people made of different races living in different regions , with diverse culture , languages and dialects .
after 16thcenturies later , bangalore became an important fortress city under rulers hyder ali and tipu sultan .
the rajasthan tourism development corporation ( rtdc ) has converted a portion of lalgarh palace into a hotel .
taking the most convenient form of transport in zhouzhuang , a gondola , we will present some of the breathtaking sights one by one .
rajasthan is the first choice for the travelers looking for heritage tour & travel in india .
`` here the white beaches on the edge of a meandering coastline have palm trees that sway to the rhythm of the sea .
the tower was assembled using wooden scaffolding and small steam cranes mounted onto the tower itself .
hyderabad is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
upper assam is still racked by the militant bodo movement demanding autonomy for the tribal bodos .
nakhon ratchasima , generally known as `` khorat `` , is thailand 's largest province situated on sprawling northeast plateau .
another sacred temple that you must pay a visit to during your temple tours to madhya pradesh is the omkareshwar temple located at indore in madhya pradesh , india .
amble past medieval monuments from the time of alauddin khilji , and find yourself amid fashion boutiques , art galleries and stylish bistros .
bangalore is a cosmopolitan city , where different cultures and customs exist .
an interesting fact of the tribal villages here is that materialism just does not exist .
the construction result demonstrates the manifestation of the wisdom and tenacity of the chinese people .
when in lucknow , you must taste tunde ke kebabs divine creations ; the creator s grandson , usman mian , still makes them in the aminabad area if lucknow .
there are many women executives , often top level management .
buckingham palace is the london home of the queen and prince philip .
the bharat milap temple is located in kamadgiri .
amber palace is a classic example of mughal & hindu architecture .
this place does not confine its activities to golf alone but the day hikes and excursion through the woods and villages are other attractions for the tourists and nature lovers .
the indus snaking through ladakh and the zanskar and chenab in kashmir are very different river running experiences .
however , some hotels may charge a minimum 30-cent successful call transaction surcharge .
as florida s population increased through immigration , so did pressure on the federal government to remove the indian people from their lands .
the take away options often works better the food is quickly and efficiently packed for you .
when nature is all you need to recuperate , kumarakom is undoubtedly the most invigorating , fascinating paradise in kerala , god 's own country .
while in most deluxe and 5 star hotels , water is potable , it is advisable to drink mineral water at all times .
each court contains a public gallery open to anyone ( aged 14 or over ) , interested in watching justice in action , and it is well worth a visit .
despite its expansive growth and development as a luxurious destination , the splendor of hua hin remains intact .
one of the best restaurants in the city , khyber serves finger-licking good indian cuisine .
the stately ujjayanta palace , covering an area of one km , is a symbol that identifies tripura .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
there is a great selection of over fifty bars , cafes and restaurants catering for the sophisticated to the earthier .
crowded on roof tops and open fields in friendly rivalry to show off their kite flying skills .
rao karamsi-the eighth prince of rao jodha , the founding maharaja of jodhpur successfully launched the royal dynasty at khimsar .
the atharvaveda described ayodhya as ` a city built by gods and being prosperous as paradise itself .
power cruises come fully equipped with fighting chairs and heavy tackle .
the famous embroidary called kasuti embroidary , popular in hubli and dharwad , dates back to the chalukya period , around the sixth centuary .
the climate of all the major regions of louisiana is characterized by short mild winters and long , hot , and generally humid summers .
tari , a locally made palm wine , can give you a real kick .
the land of lord krishna , mathura is not just frequented by the pious , there are those who make a pilgrimage here for the mouth-watering pedas .
debret , the most important of the french artists , systematically documented landscapes , people , and rural and urban customs .
this is the famous waxworks started by madame tussaud in 1835 and is now one of the most popular tourist attractions in london with over two million visitors a year .
the pacific ocean moderates western washington 's climate , which is generally mild , with rainy winters and little snow in the lowlands .
the colossal height of the tomb , along with its pyramidal appearance gives taj a soaring effect .
spend lazy evenings in bed or swing to the folk dances .
enjoy the cocktails on the lawn and dinner in the restaurant rio bar , popular with locals as well as tourists .
at daman opt for the charm of an old portuguese mansion that makes for a romantic resort .
khon kaen is the commercial , administrative an educational centre of the northeast , which is often used by travellers as a base for visiting many parts of upper isan .
this bakery was among the nizams favorites ( the signboard still flaunts the royal patronage it enjoyed long ago ) and remains popular even today .
ensure that the pace of the trek is not too rapid , since this could result in exhaustion , and would in any case not be enjoyable .
the meals are served by the owner , krishna , and his family , on low tables , while one sits on the ground on the straw mats .
this is the place to buy all sorts of woven material with colorful and unusual tribal motifs .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
near hotel pelling ; in gangtok , visit the sikkim art emporium .
the the purple valley yoga centre is a residential yoga school and offers an invigoratingly healthy experience in a beautiful sitting .
the agra fort retains the irregular outline of the demolished mud wall fort of the lodis .
194 kms from bangalore is hassan , from where one can go to belur , halebid and shravanabelagola .
the chilka lake , a combination of marine , brackish and estuarine waters , is dotted with many beautiful islands .
centuries after khwaja moinuddin chishti s demise , his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind .
the dargah of the sufi saint , who is believed to have blessed akbar with a son , is also within the fort .
it is a perfect and balanced amalgamation of the southern and oriental exclusivity with the western tenets of hospitality and efficient service right at the doorstep of honeymooners in india .
this fixed fee scheme started on from 1 september 2003 onwards and is only applicable for those who do not have an iu installed in their foreign-registered cars .
the birth place of lord krishna , `` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations `` mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
arriving europeans brought epidemic diseases that swept through the native american population .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available outside the airport or you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
another good option is treat resort , which has a water park , discotheque , pool and variety of indoor and outdoor games .
in the night market you will find toiletries , cosmetics , watches , games and great gifts to take back home .
cubbon park planned and laid out in 1864 , this beautiful 300-acre park contains the public library and the museum .
the ashram once housed nearly 10 , 000 students who studied under the tutelage of sage bhardwaj .
in the heritage village raghurajpur , 103 families are continuously engaged in the traditional pattachitra , or paintings on cloth .
tham chao le cave is located to the west of laem sak in a bay surrounded by mountains and picturesque islands .
inhabitants of the province khorat , are mainly engaged in agricultural activities .
in heranca goesa you have to book dinner by 10 a.m. so , that the owners can get you the freshest seafood .
the alpine meadows or bugyal of chipla kot lay 30 kms beyond munsiyari .
the ice skating club in shimla has already celebrated its diamond jubilee .
steeped in the splendor of its past , the ancient capital of gwalior has yet made a successful transition into a modern indian city , vibrant and bustling .
this unique observatory jantar mantar was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
it is one of london 's few attractions that enjoy a significant portion of repeat business , say no more .
raj ghat is the serene memorial of mahatma gandhi on the banks of yamuna .
vimal shah , who was a minister in the royal court of a local rajput king , raja bhimdeo , constructed this jain temple .
therefore , the country 's name instigates great national pride , which has unfortunately been marred by years of turmoil and tyranny under the lead of caudillos ( military dictators .
sunlight plays with darkness at misty munnar , the quaint hill station in kerala .
now hyderabad is a city of significant importance .
aurangabad became a thriving industrial centre with many fine academic institutions .
it houses various sections on geology , archaeology , numismatics , anthropology , botany and zoology .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor , akbar .
but there were also anti-slavery leaders , including senator thomas hart benton , and residents voted against secession in 1861 .
in retirement following the panama scandal , eiffel devoted the final thirty years of his life to a fruitful career as a scientist .
most of chiang mai 's mountains are oriented from north to south .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
the pelican state , bayou state , louisiana ( la louisianne ) was named by french explorer sieur de la salle after king louis xiv of france .
the western ghats has mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
these tours are run daily from 8 am to 10 am starting at the swaminarayan temple , kalupur .
remnants of hinduism , buddhism , jainism and islam can still be found in ayodhya .
it is also a good place to catch the sunrise and sunset that transform the surrounding landscape into a myriad hued spectacle of gold , green and red .
both decks are accessible for wheel chair users .
you can also buy jute products from kaliagani , about 360 km from kolkata .
thanks to the tireless efforts of head honcho mithun khaitan , zafraan laguna offers an authentic international experience in the heart of charminar city .
chaat aficionos will find heaven in the streets of indore and gwalior , while every kebab fan will swear by bhopal s cuisine .
it was in this hostelry that the highwayman dick turpin hid from pursuing soldiers .
mumbai remains full of culture and commerce , moving between the two with consummate ease , while pune balances colonial legacies contemporary living with equal panache .
the various buildings within this sprawling fort complex represent the assimilation of different cultures , which was the mark of the mughal period .
the ceremonial bamboo hat , khumbeu , is made of waterproof wild hnathial leaves .
rediscover a pace of life in daman taht is virtually lost to the modern world .
dozens of special rice varieties are grown in bilaspur , known as the dhan ka katora ( rice bowl .
the city was constantly faced with threats from both muslim and hindu rulers , and had to be fortified by guru hargobind .
agra is kno9wn for its handicrafts , especially marble and soft stone inlay work .
the valleys of brir , rambur and bamburet are the home of the only pagan tribe kalash , the wearers of black robes .
all these unbroken victories created a feeling of pride among the people here and his victories came to be celebrated in a big way .
a great army of manpower composed of soldiers , prisoners , and local people , built the wall .
it was the first building in france to openly display its metalwork .
45 km away from the desert city of jaisalmer , desert natinal park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills .
whether it is local , asian , middle eastern or european cuisine , there 's something for everyone , and we are sure this will spice up your travel adventure in singapore .
although bolivia is landlocked , it never feels claustrophobic blessed with breathtaking lakes and lofty mountains .
foreign motorists are required to pay tolls and a vehicle entry permit ( vep ) charge at the checkpoints when they drive into singapore .
moreover , the fallen colossus would have blocked the harbor entrance .
by 1862 , the dakota were crowded into a small reservation along the minnesota river .
feni is sold under several brand names , but the ideal drink is the one concocted at a goan home or a local watering hole .
pop into cherra bazaar in cherrapunjee to shop for areca nut and cinnamon sticks .
the very pulse of silvassa , kilvani road is where the bulk of the town s commerce is concentrated .
originally a 19th century boarding house , built for british and scottish tea planters , it was converted into a hotel in 1939 .
the nalaban island within the lagoon has been notified as a bird sanctuary .
east kalimantan resident in 2004 amount to 2.750.369 men in 2005 east kalimantan residents is predicted amount to 2 , 8 million men .
also certain to delights are the pilgrimage sites of ujjain , omkareshwar , maheshwar and amarkantak , with their beautiful temples in lush riverside settings .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the taj , enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
cochin is well connected by rail most major cities of india .
phagli festival of the lahaul valley is celebrated in phagun , the last month of winter and the beginning of the spring season .
this region witnessed the invasion of mahmud of ghazni in 1009 ad .
himachal pradesh excellent for shawls .
by air there are flights from kolkata ( daily ) and guwahati ( triweekly ) to agartala .
the london eye river cruise experience departs conveniently from the london eye pier located next to the london eye itself .
first built in 1663 the site is the oldest in the world to have been continually in use as a theatre .
but aurangabad 's crowning glory is undoubtedly the famous buddhist caves at ajanta & the magnificent rock temples of ellora .
lohagarh is also known as the iron fort , lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of bharatpur .
mysore in karnataka also has a profusion of palaces and enchanting havelis .
please insist on a mosquito net to ensure you are not vulnerable to the malarial mosquito pack light cotton clothes for summer and light woolens for winter .
the bare minimum is just under us $ 20 a day while a top end holiday here could cost upwards of us $ 125. .
chhatti padshahi gurudwara located in kashmir , india was constructed to commemorate the site where the sixth sikh guru came to preach sikhism in kashmir , india .
jaipur , jodhpur , jaisalmer and bikaner in the state of rajasthan were stronghold of hill forts and series of palaces .
nimaj also covers a unique art gallery showcasing some masterpieces of sculptural art , adorned within natural surroundings so as to provide an authentic ambience .
however , learning that the war is over , the british pack up and go home .
the markets and well equipped shops to meet all but the most obscure of demands .
it is the idea that the king of gods is capable of unroofing the temple if he stood up that fascinated poets and historians alike .
the kannadiga new year day of yugadi that falls on the second half of march or early april is celebrated with devotion and delight .
rates are quoted in singapore dollars and maybe subject to a 10 % service charge , 5 % goods and services tax ( gst ) and 1 % cess .
you also stand a good chance of sampling it during festivals like losar , the tibetan new year .
at prassinikadavu muthappan temple , theyyam is performed every day .
the first brush with royality could be had on the palace on wheels , the tourist train run by the rajasthan tourism department .
in retaliation , many sikhs were butchered by hindus .
the new state enjoyed a thirty year period of prosperity , and by 1860 had a population of 435 , 000 , 25 percent of whom were slaves .
if you have evern a passing interest in aromatherapy , drop in at line bazaar in olandganj in jaunpur for oils and perfumes of the best quality .
wisconsin 's original inhabitants were the winnebago , dakota ( sioux ) and menominee indians .
to visit the namtok khlong thom waterfall , the admission fee is 10 baht per person .
if you find yourself near a small village , head to the biggest ground and you may get lucky , otherwise check with your local friends .
the place being nearer to the nainital , almora , pithoragarh etc can attract large number of water sports loving tourists also .
nowadays , the forbidden city , or the palace museum is open to tourists from home and abroad .
the pushkar lake is a sacred spot for hindus .
intriguing diversity among ethnic tribes coupled with breathtaking scenery makes chiang mai one of asia 's most attractive tourist destinations .
woodcarvings , embroidered items , bags and purses with tapestry work , copperware , scrolls , tibetan jewelry and artifacts can be picked up from the shops and markets across the town .
tourists can surf , ski , scuba dive , snorkel , sail , and fish or just enjoy the sea , the sun and the sand .
the most fragrant is the famous short-grained doobraj rice , which you can take home to add an unusual touch to your dinner .
enjoy a leisurly drink in the cosy bar or just relax on the comfortable sofas of the grand durbar hall .
a holiday can t get any better or more memorable .
hyderbad , being capital city is well conected by road from all major cities in andhra pradesh and karnataka , tamilnadu , maharastra and orissa .
the govind devji temple located at ujjain in madhya pradesh , india is one temple that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
the resorts in dadra & nagar haveli are also popular for film units , who find these locales convenient for shoots out of mumbai .
even as you walk down the rabindra kanan today , you will feel strains of the poet s songs filling the air .
there is architecture and sculpture here from periods ranging as far back as the 7th century ad pallava rule to as recently as the 19th century marathas .
the water is pumped from a reservoir 6 km away into a tank , that today houses entire shoals of khol fish .
a festival of sufi music enhances the spiritual aura at the huge fair .
sheikhpura kothi , hansi , a two and a half hour drive from delhi on nh 10 .
the best way to know about the glorious heritagrof new delhi is to know its monuments .
savour the silences of late afternoon and watch the hills to by from the toy train .
upper bhavani is a naturalist s paradise .
there are a number of places of historical interest in ajmer , rajasthan , india that you could tour to during your historical tours to this historical city .
karakoram has the largest concentration of lofty pinnacles and mountains in the world , stretching for 400 kms with 250 kms depth .
a visit to the dam is a must for the breathtaking scenery that it has to offer .
for residual metal work , visit belguntha , in ganjam district .
the republic of colombia was formally established in 1855 .
the surrounding area will also be revitalized and it is hoped that a new rail link to the area will also be created .
the world headquarters of the theosophical society , formed to facilitate and encourage the study of comparative religion .
khon kaen national museum houses objects from the dvaravati period and bronze sculptures from ban chiang .
today the fort is used by the state legislative assembly and as the secretarial offices of the tamil nadu government .
rajgir , kusumbi , kushinagar , sravasti and vaishali are other important buddhist sites covered under the buddhist circuit in the states of uttar pradesh and bihar .
built in 1858 / 9 the bell was named after one sir benjamin hall and when it was cast it was britain 's heaviest bell .
you can learn to windsurf on all major beaches in phuket , samui , pattaya and krabi , as well as on islands of ko tao and ko chang .
permanent galleries include medieval bengali and indian miniature paintings , textiles and excellent specimens of old hand woven daccai and baluchari saris .
such isolation was more favorable to chiang mai as it helped to nurture and preserve the unique lanna culture .
the town also has a rare apiary museum , if you re intrigued by the history behind the bee-keeping tradition .
named illahabas , the city acquired its grand fort over looking the sangam in 1583 .
there s dzukou valley , also called the valley of eternal charm , with its repertoire of adventure sports and stretches upon stretches of beautiful flowers , especially orchids .
the punjab , kanuj , tibet , ladhak , badakshan , iran , bihar , gauda ( bengal ) kalinga ( orissa ) , south india , gujarat , malwa , marwar and sindh were all conquered by him .
the architecture and the carvings of the 34 monolithic cave temples are truly awesome and breathtaking in their grand scale and design .
on chowringhee , this modern nehru children 's museum houses miniature models in clay that depict scenes from the ramayana and mahabharata .
more tourist places like jog falls , nandhi hills are found here .
native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 1 , 313. .
iguassu falls are the widest in the world , and in the native tupi-guarani language , guazu means big , and i means water .
as the capital of the country , delhi stocks handicrafts from every state .
organized as dakota territory ( which included lands that eventually became north dakota , south dakota , montana , and wyoming ) on march 2 , 1861 .
the trains that arrive at the small badami station are all ii class passenger trains .
the city by itself offers extensive shopping opportunities , a rich fanfare of cuisine , hotels to suit all pockets and much cultural and other entertainment .
once you visited the beautiful andaman and nicobar islands you can be sure you will return to them time and again .
at the site of the mausoleum itself , only the foundation remains of the once magnificent wonder .
situated in the middle of the park , the open-air theatre s unique atmosphere makes it a marvelous place to see a play .
apart from its long history , the alwar city has a rich natural heritage with some beautiful lakes and picturesque valleys thickly wooded in parts .
the material for taj mahal was brought in from all over india and central asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site .
there are exquisite silk saris and brass lamps for festive occasions , roam the streets for all you need to adorn your house .
one of the best eateries here is the blue sheep , which serves chinese-style sikkimese specialties .
for a tasty of authentic chakem , you have to find a host in one of the families in the hill stations .
this rule also applies to phones , radios and cassette recorders , and unfortunately there are no facilities for leaving such items outside the court .
eastern washington gets much hotter in summer and colder in winter .
if buzzing flea market is your thing , also visit ahmedabad s sunday market near ellis bridge a good place for old books .
the maharashtra state road transport corporation runs ordinary and luxury buses from aurangabad to mumbai .
spread over an area of 2190 square kilometers , bangalore enjoys a pleasant and equable climate throughout the year .
if it s spicy , savoury snacks that tickle your palate , sarafa bazaar in indore is the place to go .
sightseeing ajmer is venerated as a holy place for both hindus and muslims .
the traditional colours used are deep red , blue , yellow , green and scarlet , and the kalka design often has pretty floral borders .
about a kilometer from the museum is the sprawling , an elaborate victorian building set amid well laid out lawns .
golconda fort is an easy 13 kilometers from hyderabad city , take a luxury bus , taxi or an autorikshwa to reach there .
the project was commissioned by the rhodian sculptor chares of lindos .
take time for a diversion to mahe , once a tiny french outpost .
bangkok , the great city has had astounding success in combining the ancient and modern world .
carpets and dry fruits are also worth checking out .
mughals brought their fine arches , perfect domes and filigree culminating in the perfection of the taj mahal at agra .
the indian architecture tradition is the living vital art from assimilating in it the influence of the various dynasties which ruled over it .
the city of the thousand-headed anantha , the holy serpent on which lord vishnu reclines , thiruvananthapuram is one of the most beautiful cities of india .
kozhikode was then the capital of the powerful zamorin of malabar .
the theosophical society is located along the adyar river .
stall near the press club in shillong is a small shack where you ll find authentic local cuisine .
fatehpur sikri was built by the mughal emperor akbar during 1564 a .d .
the massive taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates .
the centre is open to visitors from friday to wednesday from 10 am to 4 pm and admission is free .
agartala is struggling to keep pace with its essential services vastly outstripped by an increasing population .
the oldest , cave 1 , has stunning carvings of shiva in his nataraja avatar , dancing the apocalyptic tandava .
high altitude climbers will enjoy the rock faces at sonmarg in kashmir and gangotri in garhwal , uttaranchal .
considering the rudimentary means available at that period , this could be considered record speed .
inside the city , taxis are the only way to get around .
while pottery is a thriving business all over the state , the famous ayyanar horses , made in salem and pudokottai in terracotta , are a must buy .
accommodations are provided within the park but advance reservations are required .
auli offers a panoramic view of himalayan peaks like nanda devi , kamet , mana parvat and dunagiri see mingly only a snowball throw away , auli offers perfect skiing conditions .
spend the afternoon peddle boating or lolling on shikaras , when hungry ; pitch your hook to catch fish .
phuket has a lot more to offer its visitors other than its natural heritage sea , sand , sky , beach , forest , and world renowned diving sites .
khimsar is a fine tourist destination in rajasthan .
the highland park hotel , renowned for its elegance , is now owned by a kashmiri family .
agra and varanasi are also major centers of the huge tourism industry .
the dakota who stayed and those who eventually returned have formed four communities in southern minnesota .
the company had by this time mastered perfectly the principle of building bridge supports .
the state s population has tripled in the last thirty years .
team mrf , team jk , team jct and team paarel are the only four teams in india today .
some of the interesting tourist places in patna itself would be golghar , harmandirji , jalan museum , martyrs ' memorial , kumrahar , pathar ki masjid , patna museum , khuda baksh oriental library and agam kuan .
visit mirid to walk through gardens strewn with flowers and thick forests .
ice skating in shimla , normally begins in early december and carries on to february .
rainfall is light , with the more arid areas in western south dakota , as evidenced by the badlands .
india harbours eighty percent of the entire population of the one hundered rhinoceros in the world .
the city bus service is efficient but very crowded .
kanatal is a lake that is believed to have dried up mysteriously .
within the fort walls that still carry the poignant scars of tipu s last stand against the british , are a mosque and the ranganathaswamy temple .
the neermahal , the royal family s summer retreat , is a hallmark fusion of hindu and mughal architecture .
white churches dot the landscape leaving no doubt that the city is devoutly christian .
spend some time viewing the himalayan peaks , yamuna river , and the mussoorie valley .
trains from delhi , gwalior , jhansi and the south arrive here , it is closest to most good hotels , and has a tourist information counter .
this will be paid together with the vep and toll charges via the autopass card when departing from singapore .
taragarh fort was built on a hilltop by ajaipal chauhan , the founder of the city in the 7th century and is about 3 km from the city of ajmer .
court number one is the most interesting , with its original furniture and dock leading to the detaining cells below .
according to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the hindu deity lord shiva was meditating when his consort uma 's cry shook him out of his meditation .
charnminar the graceful tower stands for everything hyderabadi its confluence of cultures , royal past and the life that is alive and buzzing like the markets around it .
the people also suffered from famine , and plague as well , and a considerable section of people became victims of these calamities .
even in their present state of decay , they command admiration both by their imposing dimensions , and by the beauty of their architectural design and decoration .
33km from agartala is a botanical garden with a beautifully kept small zoo .
sharing a meal with a traditional mizo family will be an unforgettable experience .
panchranga pickle located at panchkula himachal pradesh border , gt road .
covering an area of 25 , 494 square kilometers that is mainly plateaus and mountainous terrain , khorat has fascinating traditions , charming hospitality , splendid natural scenery and awesome historical sites .
they include the uttar pradesh high court , the all saints cathedral and allahabad university .
it is also a land of beautiful music .
there are scores of over 7 , 000 m peaks in the karakoram range and hundreds of nameless summits below 6 , 000 metres , mere points on the map .
the 19th century all saints cathedral popularly known as patthar girjaghar ( stone church ) is a towering gothic structure that still holds prayers and sunday mass .
the most sough-after item is the pink pearl necklace which can be yours for as little as rs. 500 .
in 1801 , the british annexed the city and its fort , establishing colonial rule for the next 150 years .
near tezpur lie the ruins of stone temples ' da parbatia ' about 5 kms. west .
laxmi narayana temple , which is the main temple of chamba town , was built by sahil varman in the 10th century ad .
the neelum river streams through the town , joins river jhelum at domel and plays a dominant role in the micro climate of muzaffarabad .
than bok khorani national park s headquarters is located just one kilometer from tambon ao leuk neua market intersection on the ao luk sak road .
for years , the sanctuary was visited by merchants , tourists , artisans , and kings who paid homage to the goddess by sharing their profits with her .
rectangular in shape , tiananmen square is the world 's largest palace complex and covers 74 hectares .
free land was opened in 1863 , and the northern pacific railroad was chartered in 1864 .
perfect in any season , darjeeling is the stuff dreams are made of .
one of the sports involves the test of scores of passengers even as they struggle to keep themselves from falling off the camel 's back .
the best time to visit ahmedabad is between october and march .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
the highest elevation is harney peak in pennington county at 7 , 242 feet while the lowest elevation is big stone lake in roberts county at 966 feet .
the star shaped temple at somnathpur is a splendid example of hoysla architecture .
erected in memory of the poet saint thiruvalluvar , the shrine at nungambakkam is constructed after the temple car of thiruvarur .
during your tours to the historical monuments in the mandu region of madhya pradesh , india you can visit the jahaz mahal , the hindola mahal , ashrafi mahal and hoshang shah 's tomb .
karakoram means black mountain in turkish , this splendid magnificent collection of dark brown and black metamorphic rocks is the most unique mountain range .
the threshold of the lahaul plateau is nourished by chandra & bhaga rivers .
although kohima is dotted with private shops that sell typical naga goodies , this is the indisputable best in town for naga handlooms and handicrafts .
chonor house , dharamshala , is perfect for lunch and you are sure to enjoy the fabulous tibetan and thai food on offer .
where you can experience every season-from searing balmy autumn and a mysterious monsoon thrown in for good measure .
andretta pottery s kiln-fired glaze and attractive rangoli design make it rather distinctive .
today , polo is not just restricted to the royalty and the indian army , many companies and firms too patronize the sport .
hawa mahal was built by maharaja sawai pratap singh in 1799 ad and lal chand usta was the architect .
the up market hotels are along the mall road and offer facilities like swimming pools and gyms .
in 1845 queen victoria asked for the palace to be extended to make more room for her growing family of four children .
the maharaja himself designed the palace and nobel laureate rabindranath tagore was an occasional guest .
the guests favorite , however , is the nakshstra vanam , a garden with nine trees representing nine planets .
the main shrines among them are the hanuman temple , kalika temple , panchnam junakhara , thingal bhairav temple and the vaneswar temple .
the gigantic ashoka pillar , of polished sandstone stands 10.6 meters high , dating back to 232 b.c. .
pick up one of the delightful tiles featuring mario miranda s cartoons .
adjoining madame tussaud 's is the london planetarium .
relatively unknown to the most tourists , the ubon ratchathani boasts a number of natural wonders , cultural and historical attractions , national parks , silk producing shops , etc .
chonburi , bangkok s nearest seaside town , is located on the eastern coast of the gulf of thailand , only 80 kilometers from bangkok .
taking a break from kite flying is equally rewarding , for waiting in the wings is a whole spread of delectable savouries and sweets .
the check post has now become a popular site for tourists , who come to see the change of guards and retreat of troops at sundown .
along the banks of the pushkar lake is the former residence of raja man singh of ajmer , man mahal .
architecture in india is a pulsating art from which continues even today .
there is a money change bureau located in taj ganj which is open mon and sat .
though motor sport started with circuit racing in india , the fact today remains that racing has hardly progressed within the country .
ayodhya is a city of immense antiquity full of historical significance and sacred temples .
is a picturesque lake 110 km from agartala offers a motor or country boat ride in a vast body of water dotted with 48 islands .
in delhi khan market is immensely popular with foreign diplomats and expatriates .
the kheer bhawani temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india .
responsible eco-tourism includes programs that minimize the adverse effects of traditional tourism on the natural environment , and enhance the cultural integrity of local people .
however , just 15 years after it was established , the court had to be moved out of fatehpur sikri because of acute shortage of water .
the highest elevation is black mesa in cimarron county at 4 , 973 feet while the lowest elevation is little river in mccurtain county at 289 feet .
the place where the two armies confronted each other was later called thap phraya , which means the army of the phraya .
chamundi hills is 1150m hill that is named after goddess durga , the consort of lord shiva , who vanquished the demon mahishasura .
the magic of rajasthan is unequalled in the world for its heritage , culture , safaris , sand dunes and lush green forests with its wildlife .
located at the mouth of river damanganga , on the gulf of khamba , daman is home to some of the most magnificent portuguese architecture in india .
an archipelago of five islands , ko ha yai is where shallow water coral reefs are located .
andhra pickles taste exactly as they look red hot and fiery , the bestseller is the tangy pickled gongura leaf , which is unique to the sate .
the fort built in the 13th century , served the kings as a stronghold , administrative centre and market place .
the deeg palace is a strong and massive fort , which acted as the summer resort for the rulers of bharatpur .
aizawl airport is 6km away from the city and taxis and buses are available to ferry passengers to the city centre .
today demak is a sleepy little town , however , its glory of the past is still visible from one of the major relics , which is still well preserved .
try the mutton potraday ( wrapped in leaves and cooked in thick coconut gravy ) , the ravafried seer fish ( not on the menu ) and the ponpallas .
the cause for wonder about this nandi is that it has been carved from a single boulder .
hundreds and thousands of visitors come to rajasthan to witness sam sand dunes 's wonderful artistic view of the nature and the place can be best covered with the help of camel safari .
forget the white , the brown and rye in kashmir ; try the local basket of breads .
the one single factor that determined aurangabad 's role in the history of medieval india is its location .
by train aurangabad is not located on the main route but some trains do stop here .
his ministers were gorgeously dressed , wore earrings and head dresses , previously reserved for the members of ruling families only .
alappuzha beach is a charming and fun place with its 137 year old pier and lighthouse .
there is also large number of birds , which can seen from an exclusive bird watching point and also nice sunset can seen from the fort of park .
the annapurna circuit takes one through terraced hills , forests and alpine pastures and through the villages of a number of different cultures .
the entrance to the garden is topped in red sandstone and inside is an interesting bathing tank constructed by a french general .
this court is generally used for the most serious of cases .
skiing is one sport which is not limited to the mighty himalayas or the hill stations alone .
pho khun ramkhamhaeng , younger brother of king si indrathit was thailand 's first great king .
the entire building , when floodlight on sunday evenings , presents a truly breathtaking picture .
the great wall of china , one of the greatest wonders of the world , was enlisted in the world heritage by unesco in 1987 .
the temple of nageshwarnath is said to have been established by kush the son of rama .
another specialty of the region is the exquisite paithani saris also made of silk and gold threads .
mumbai was the dowry of portuguese princess infanta catherine de braganza who married charles ii of england in 1661 .
some of the most spectacular sites for sea canoeing are around krabi and the island of phuket and phang-nga bay .
every window opens out to a fabulous view to lake and minarets of the city .
in kosa silk farm , the silken cocoon threads are spun into the gorgeous and famous bastar kosa saris .
shivaganga is 50 kms from the city center is a hill which provides a breath-taking view of the the nearby areas .
anyone who is interested in temple architecture should head for aihole .
as members of an isolated community , californians spent three decades in political confusion ( at one point , a californian-based republic was declared .
shri haru temple , this important shrine lies at a distance of 5 kilometers from bagheswar in uttaranchal in north india .
as a result , mahatma gandhi gave a call for civil disobedience , which escalated to a mass movement and forced the british out of india .
inside , a martyrs memorial stands on the eastern end , while the well and bullet ridden walls remain testimonials to the bloody massacre .
britto set in a modest portuguese style bungalow , britto s has seating arrangements both on the verandah , and on the ridges that slopes down to baga beach .
janki kund is an unusual cave over the mandakini , said to be the place where sita bathed .
a part of city palace is now converted into a museum that displays some of the best forms of art and culture .
some ao nang dive shops close during low season , may to october , while some ( ao nang divers for instance ) remain open all year long .
the grand vasant kunj , with a resort like ambience , this is one of delhi s most lovely hotels .
you can book a machan ( watch tower ) near a watering hole for the best viewing of all .
khorat is also the largest northeastern province .
for foreign motorists intending to pass through erp-priced roads during its operational hours , they can either choose to install or rent an in-vehicle unit ( iu ) to pay erp fees .
cochin is well linked on the national and state highway network to most parts of southern india .
the handicrafts centre in pelling sells souvenirs and fabrics featuring distinctive lepcha and bhutia weaves .
nature has composed its magic to perfection at kumarakom .
a weak and worthless man raja sahadev was the ruler then .
from its building to its destruction lies a time span of merely 56 years .
the entire city is spread over a 12 km long ridge commanding the view of terraced hillsides and cultivations .
a fascinating area just to the north of the city which is an alluring mix of scruffy old character and trendy new vibrancy .
fortify yourself at the lovely restaurant , where you can sample maratha and nepalese delicacies .
in kashmir pahalgam is the most spectacular .
as with other art forms , musical activity intensified with the arrival of the royal family in 1808 .
garwhal and even karnataka which are part of the larger category of adventure tourism in india .
a poor replica of the taj , it was designed and built by ata ullah whose name is engraved on its door .
the 1st europeans was the french canadians explorer sieur de la verendrye in 1738 .
the barbican is comprised of businesses , exclusive residential flats , the museum of london and the barbican arts centre .
zarda is a sweet rice preparation enriched with dried fruit and nuts .
away from the main tourist humdrum of nainital or ranikhet , almora has retained much of its traditional values and old world charm .
bengkulu is the smallest and lowest populated province of sumatra .
this temple has the distinction of being the largest among all the temples located in this region .
the reign of this king would not be complete without the mention of 'suya ' one of the greatest engineers kashmir produced in ancient times .
the first phase of the ride is easy , through thick peripheral reserve forests of sal .
the king repaired and restored many temples and shrines , and numerous other pious foundations were also made during his reign .
watch the fishermen tackle the deep blue waters as they venture out in the hope of a good catch .
wildlife and exotic flora may be found in the national parks of chiang mai province .
the vishram ghat is lined with elegant temples and some of mathura 's most important shrines are found here - the mukut temple , radha-damodar , murli manohar , neelkantheshwar , yamuna-krishna , langali hanuman and narasimha temples .
they tell us how the mysterious mirror could reflect the light tens of kilometers away .
the temples here are from a later period than those at ajanta ( 350 ad to 1000 ad ) , and include hindu and jain monuments as well .
if you prefer simple needlework , you are sure to like bavalia embroidery which employs the button hole or cross stitch method .
the poshest area of mumbai , malabar hill has attractive residences , including the chief minister 's house and a palatial state guest house .
at bau tlang in aizawl is a typical indian bazaar where locals , dressed in their traditional clothes , sell everything from toys to fresh river crabs .
from picturesque konkana to lush green vidarbha , every part of maharashtra is a place to see , to enjoy tourism unlimited .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
written records about life in florida began with the arrival of the spanish explorer and adventurer juan ponce de leon in 1513 .
when in daman , always choose seafood and your meal is sure to be heavenly .
the five star hotels have good restaurants , which serve authentic mughlai cuisine .
due to the large number of fascinating temples dotting the city , ubon is a place of pilgrimage at the beginning of buddhist lent .
until a new building was commissioned in 1887 , there was no church on the site for almost 100 years .
in fact walking is the best way to discover diu s secrets .
savitri is located on hill behind the brahma temple and one has to climb a long series of steps to reach the shrine .
the house was built in 1833 , and retains a lovely old-world charm .
pick up madhubani and gond paintings , dokra work figurines and bengal s famous kaantha embroidery .
the discovery of gold in california in 1849 touched off a search for gold in other regions including the rocky mountains and accounted for the first extensive settlement of colorado .
quirky little knickknacks and export surplus bargains is what you can expect to find in diu .
recent studies suggest that it was erected either on the eastern promontory of the mandraki harbor , or even further inland .
autopass cards are sold at the primary clearance / immigration booths or vep / tolls office at singapore checkpoints .
lofty mountains , a dense flora and fauna , surrounding sylvan environs and miles of expanses of tea gardens meet the passenger 's eye on most routes .
city palace is situated in the heart of city , it occupies about one seventh of the old city area .
until after the civil war , only free black or escaped slaves came west unless brought by their owners .
the base is carved with floral motifs , of roses , tulips , and narcissi .
it is an arts and crafts fair held at the shilpgram , the crafts village nears the taj mahal .
the central area of central kalimantan is dense and fertile tropical forest , producing valuable commodities such as rattan , resin and the best woods .
nearest railhead 15kms away from khatima distance from naintal 119 kms nearest airstrip is pantnagar .
suya , then raised stone embankments , and adopted other protective measures .
parasailing centers are few in the country but still both domestic and international tourists are taking up parasailing in india for the sheer thrill of it .
an adjoining park that silently salutes the martyres througha series of statues adds to the sambore ambience .
with no parallel in the world , the minarets have been so designed that when one is shaken the other sways in sympathy .
once singapore s busiest port in the 1960s , it has been transformed into a popular hangout for locals , expatriates and tourists , with chic cafes , high-end restaurants , yuppie pubs and designer galleries .
the temple of nanda devi , presiding deity of almora and named after the regions highest peak , is built in the typical kumaoni style of stone temple architecture .
gradually europeans started setting up business and trade establishments , the moneyed class taking interest in banking and usury .
settlers were also drawn to other parts of the state , where a profitable timber industry later developed around oregon 's bountiful supply of douglas fir trees .
this ancient temple is one of the most preserved amongst all the other temples of kashmir , india .
3D Gaming Engine
