the area has got the digamber jain temple which houses the birds hospital .
places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include gulmarg in jammu and kashmir , auli in grawhal , kufri and narkanda in himachal pradesh .
young children are taken to the temples and are introduced to the letters of the alphabet in front of saraswati , the goddess of wisdom and learning .
mandi is comparatively hotter than other hill stations of himachal pradesh .
this beacon resonates the image of gustave eiffel 's tower itself as a universal and symbolic landmark .
during your tours to the historical monuments in sanchi that is located at a few kilometers from the city of gwalior you can visit the historic buddhist stupas at sanchi , india .
68 kms from bhopal , sanchi has the distinction of having the finest specimens of almost all buddhist architectural forms , stupa , chaitya , temples and monasteries dating from 3rd century bc .
jaipur is an important centre on indian airlines north india network , and is connected with daily flights from delhi , jodhpur , udaipur , aurangabad and mumbai .
mandi is district made out of two princely states of mandi and suket .
close to hampstead heath stands high gate hill and on top of the hill , the pleasant village of high gate .
more accurate reconstructions may give us an idea about the general layout of the temple .
as a capital town , itanagar is well connected with the rest of the country by road and air communications .
ahmedabad railway station is located east of the old city ; auto rickshaws , taxis and city buses available outside the station facilitate access to the city .
visit to dilwara temples consisting of five jain temples built by beginning of the 11th century onwards with intricate ornamental carvings represent the climax in the art of decoration in stone .
the beautiful sparkling lights of new year 's eve 2000 will be visible all year long .
the horizontal cross section of the pyramid is square at any level , with each side measuring 229 m ( 751 ft ) in length .
kumily is situated on the outskirts of the periyar sanctuary .
image thus , the unwary visitor will find chennai more than just a gateway of south india .
udaipur , the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green aravali range and crystal clear water lake .
the main reason for this is its magnificent palm fringed beaches and renowned travelers scene .
celebrated in august / september , onam is one of the kerala 's most important festivals .
during the day you can tell if they ' re sitting by looking for a flag at the top of the nearby victoria tower , which is the tallest and largest of the westminster towers .
birth anniversary of mahapprabhu vallabhacharya is celebrated every year on eleventh bright day of baisakh ( april-may ) and a large number of followers of the sect assemble here to pay homage .
ayodhya during ancient times was known as kaushaldesa .
in nainital district , sat tal , bhim tal , and naukuchiyatal also have water sport & boating facilities .
allahabad fort built by emperor akbar in 1583 a.d. , the fort stands on the banks of the yamuna near the confluence site .
on that day a ray of sunlight passes through an arch between the horns of stone bull that stands outside the temple and lights up the idol inside .
it is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
in the 2nd century , london ( then called londinium ) was controlled by the roman invaders , and a wall was built to protect it .
the weather is the city 's best feature , with pleasant summers and bearable winters .
most of the inexpensive budget accommodation is in taj ganj .
to bring supplies to the top , ropes were slung over posts set in the chinese side of the wall and baskets were hauled up hand over hand .
from the bird species found in the himalayas like pheasants and snow eagles to birds of prey and other avian species found in the plains like peafowl , nightingales , sparrows and owls .
tansen 's tomb is the memorial to the legendary singer who was one of the ' nine jewels ' in court of emperor akbar .
they made their way via dananayakan kottai to aracad and the existing village of denad , and penetrated as far as kallatti , the lower level of north ooty , but never set their eyes on the beautiful valley in which ooty lay .
kochi carnival held from december 25-31 , offers a kaleidoscope of performing arts , including kathakali , classical dance , martial arts and boat races .
marine drive extends from nariman point to malabar hill past the famous chowpatty beach , and is built on land reclaimed from back bay along the arabian sea .
in about the early 19th century ad , the british exercised their influence and annexed the areas of shimla after the gurkha war of 1815-16. .
nearly thirteen million people live here - wealthy industrialists , flashy film stars , internationally acclaimed artists , workers , teachers and clerks live here .
forts , palaces , museums , old churches , cool backwaters , palm fringed lagoons , beaches and the practicality of a contemporary metro .
the walls of the jain temple are adorned with colorful paintings depicting various incidents in the lives of the 24 tirthankaras of the jain religion .
jag mandir is an island palace located in pichola lake , constructed by maharana karan singh for the hideout of prince khurram .
here , after the battle of trafalgar , the body of admiral sir horatio nelson was laid prior to his state funeral at st paul 's cathedral .
and it was the beauty of the tomb rather than its size that fascinated its visitors for years .
the main attraction of the jain temple is a divine tree called as ' kalptaru ' and the famous carvings and dome add extra charm to the temple .
the curvature of the uprights is mathematically determined to offer the most efficient wind resistance possible .
participants are advised to bring heavy woolen clothing like caps , socks , gloves , mufflers , pullovers , trousers , wind proof jackets , dark glasses , gum / snow boots and a torch for personal use .
it has been suggested that the first canal was dug during the reign of tuthmosis iii , although more solid evidence credits the pharaoh necho ( sixth century bc ) for the attempt .
by train kumarghat , 140 km away , is the nearest rail station .
the official line , from the head of public information at the palace is that the clock tower is simply called the clock tower .
for instance , the jahangiri palace built by akbar is a good blend of islamic ( persian ) and different local hindu styles .
mount abu is the only hill station of rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the aravalli range .
the ruling military junta assumed wide-ranging powers , its main aim being to eliminate the communist party and other leftist opposition .
located in sector 17 b , nrityagram gallery was inaugurated in september 1977 it is filled with portraits of indian freedom fighters , rare documents and recordings of the voices of prominent figures of india 's independence movement .
there are also the lalbhai dalpatbhai institute of indology , museum of miniatures , shreyas folk museum , utensils museum and even a kite museum ! the last one reflects the city s fascination with kites .
jama masjid - one of the architectural gifts given by shah jahan , jama masjid is one of the largest mosques not only in delhi but in india .
it is a matter of pride that this 2000-year-old art of weaving continues , with families passing on their creative skills to younger generations .
among the more interesting paintings are the jataka tales , illustrating diverse stories relating to the previous incarnations of the buddha as bodhisattva , a saintly being who is destined to become the buddha .
the tombstone of akbar is placed in the centre of room. geometrical designs achieved by the mosaics of glazed tiles or of colored stones , predominate the tomb .
` ` because jyotiba was formed by the amalgamation of the jyotis ( souls ) of three gods , brahma , vishnu and shiva who took the form of jyotiba to destroy the evil ratnasur .
the volume of iron and steel utilized in the dam structure would be enough to build 380 eiffel towers , and the volume of concrete used in itaip represents 15 times the volume utilized to build the channel tunnel between france and england .
those who do will find statues honoring a number of past british prime ministers .
in modern times the people of kashmir have shortened it into ` ` kasheer ` ` in their tongue .
if you are lucky , the time you visit will coincide with some cultural festival or the other being held at the amphitheater , located within the shipagram complex .
perhaps the biggest attraction is the kamakhya temple atop nilachal hill , where the goddess kamakhya is worshipped and which commands a majestic view of the city and the river .
it had gone to ruin over the years , being used , among other things , as a cowshed ; only recently was it restored by the district administration , thanks to the efforts of the environmental forum , to save nilgiris campaign , and the enthusiasm of an energetic collector .
the temple is decorated with paintings depicting incidents from the life of the tirthankaras , the first floor of the temple is particularly dedicated to parasnath .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
this huge fort has huge battlements that surround palaces , massive water tanks and temples .
the other attraction in the wildlife national park is the ruins of ranthambore fort and jogi mahal that date back to the 10th century .
there is a intense competition where the participating hotels lay out a feast showcasing cuisine from all over the world .
although it is not known for sure who planned the taj , the name of an indian architect of persian descent , ustad ahmad lahori , has been cited in many sources .
occupied for almost 700 years , the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
streets laid out in chess-board pattern , dividing the town into many blocks , houses with bathrooms and underground drainage system are identical to the ones found at mohanjodaro and various arts and artifacts are the interesting features of lothal .
india offers a wide range of adventure sports for tourists .
christians in mumbai celebrate the birth of jesus christ with great fanfare .
the lake was drained , the land appeared , and the demon was killed .
in the hilly reaches , panthers and leopards have been known to attack people and carry away small children .
the hanuman temple at the top of jakhu hill is the highest point in shimla .
the gateway is inscribed with verses from the koran , the lettering of which appear the same size through an illusion created by the craftsmen who enlarged and lengthened the letters at different positions .
ahmedabad also has exchange bureaus where you can exchange money ; most big branches of indian banks will exchange money and cash traveler s cheques .
a crafts museum is at pragati maidan grounds. open from 10am-5pm daily .
these temples , dedicated to various jain saints and deities , is an important place of pilgrimage on the jain circuit .
the entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic , precious stones , gold and silver work .
tippu sultan ` ` tiger of karnataka ` ` was killed in 1799 a.d. , and the mysore throne was handed back to the wodeyar 's .
the doorway shows a row of eight buddhas surrounded by female guardians , river gooses , and scrollwork and lotus petals .
madras is also the fountainhead of the theosophical movement which spread worldwide .
the park contains a bronze sculpture made by rodin in 1895 of the burghers of calais ( the residents of calais in france who surrendered to edward iii in 1347 , during the hundred year s war between britain and france .
it is believed that a casket containing his mortal remains floated and came to rest on a rocky bed in the sea , where devotees constructed the tomb and mosque .
the building is not normally open to the public , which makes it the least interesting of the inns of court .
an annual fair is held every year in the month of magh ( january - february .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor , akbar .
it is hard to imagine that lloyd 's began life as a group of businessmen meeting in edward lloyd 's coffee shop back in 1688 .
the official line though , from the head of public information at the palace of westminster , is that it 's just called ' the green .
the work on the line was started in august 1891 by lord wenlock , governor or madras , but the company was liquidated in 1894 .
it might have been introduced as the structure was progressing .
matches are usually organized in the winter season , details of which can be obtained from local dailies or race courses .
clear skies and low temperatures provide series of uninterrupted sessions .
a two-storied octagonal tower , the musamman burj , is said to be the place from where shah jahan last saw the taj mahal before dying .
at the entrance to the terminus is a large statue of queen victoria , the clock on tower is 3.19m in diameter .
the panhala place has a colorful history and only a guide can give one the proper historical perspective of the fort .
a daily film show is organized in the auditorium of the museum and it is closed on monday .
the dda has also installed some musical fountains at specific locations which are worth visiting .
each of the 18 , 000 pieces used to construct the tower were specifically designed and calculated , traced out to an accuracy of a tenth of a millimeter and then put together forming new pieces around five meters each .
hyderabad golcond is one of the famous forts of india ; the name originates from the telugu words golla konda meaning shepherd s hill .
st. philomena church has been built in the gothic style with beautiful stain glass windows and lofty towers .
the artist 's creative instincts have beautifully captured various facets and moods of life in stone .
situated at 1500metres above sea level , kohima is one of the prettiest centers of north east .
khimsar is located on the route between jodhpur and bikaner .
the hawa mahal is one of the most popular monuments that you can visit during your tours to jaipur in rajasthan , india .
moirang town is one of the main seats of early manipuri folk culture with the ancient temple of the pre-hindu deity lord thangjing , situated here .
photography is also strictly forbidden and cameras can not even be taken inside .
one more work of wonder to be seen here is an iron pillar that still remains unrusted .
delhi today is one of the most elegant capitals in the world .
it has only been a little over 100 years since humans first occupied the continent ( 1899 ) and only nearly 200 years since seafarers first even saw the islands of the antarctic peninsula ( 1819 ) .
raj mahal , the interior of the palace is painted with boldly colorful murals on a variety of religious themes .
after kanishka , local weak rulers continued to govern the state , till we hear from kalhan , the arrival of mahir-gul , the notorious hun invader of our country .
cochin is a cluster of islands dotting on the magnificent emerald lakes which in turn open to the sea , making the city one of the finest natural harbors in the world .
one of the best havelis of jaisalmer , amar sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers .
udaipur as a honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india is a very apt spot as it is also known as the ` ` city of lakes ` ` for the uninitiated wedded ones .
it s always wise to check updated visa requirements prior to travel .
car and bike enthusiasts yearning for more adventure started setting off to cross country expeditions .
nestled amongst the dense rishikesh badrinath highway at an altitude of 380 mts . , here the mighty water of ganga is ideal for white water rafting there is also ample opportunity to view wildlife in its natural habitat .
its architecture has been certainly strongly influenced by the romans , which suggests it was built around the first century ad .
as of this writing ( mid-1998 ) , the percentage of the kanha national park 's core area open to visitors ( 227 km2 ) is about 25 .
visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks .
kumarakom slumbers on the banks of the famous vembanad lake .
kalhan has started the history of kashmir just before the great mahabharat war , and the first king mentioned by him is gonanda i , whose initial year of reign he places in 653 kali-era , the traditional date of the coronation of king yudhistira , the eldest brother of the pandvas .
it was he , who recovered kashmir from utter political and economic disorder .
chennai is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
the height and the strategic location serves as a favorite vantage point for the people and tourists to encamp themselves on the scattered rocks and watch the spectacle of sunrises and sunsets .
national championships were instituted and winners became cult figures .
one can reach kumbhalgarh by road from udaipur ( 84km ) and ranakpur which is 18km from kumbhalgarh .
when st paul visited the city , the temple was adorned with golden pillars and silver statuettes , and was decorated with paintings .
however , paraguay has taken a number of steps to overcome its political , economic and geographic situation and is building a more welcoming image .
this divine land is also enriched with natural beauty which makes it a paradise for tourists .
when they decided to fortify it in 1494 , they used the stones of the mausoleum. by 1522 , almost every block of the mausoleum had been disassembled and used for construction .
the wars of independence , which expelled the spanish from virtually the entire south american continent , reached peru in the early 1820s .
the weavers of kancheepuram have been famous from ancient times for some of the best woven silk sarees in the world .
during the nine days , the state government arranges music , dance , folk dance , doll shows , wrestling and sports competitions .
it is an important shopping center and spice trade center. the main bus station and most of the medium range accommodation in the periyar region is in kumily .
the burial chamber and the sarcophagus of white alabaster decorated with gold were located on the podium and surrounded by ionic columns .
the mighty brahmaputra river that has its origins in tibet charts and has its majestic course through this state .
this is the oldest anglican church in asia .
no two travelers will ever see the same icebergs forged in exactly the same form , such is its ephemeral and austere beauty .
the ancient deposits of chhattisgarh and jain religion memorials are found at malhar , sirpur , maheshpur and arang .
the best way to know about the glorious heritagr of new delhi is to know its monuments .
reached after crossing the ganga on boat or via road , the site has several temples and ashrams .
the british established many hill stations in this region to protect themselves from the extreme heat and dust of the northern plains in the summer .
the erstwhile dilthaman tank , which was the only source of drinking water to port blair , and the area around it has been developed into gandhi park in an unbelievably short time of 13 days .
fish and other exotica from the arabian sea dominate the cuisine .
moreorless , it is the religious preferences and the agricultural practices followed by the tribes of arunachal pradesh , which account for the uniqueness of this hill station in india .
temple at somnathpur is well preserved and not to be missed .
a damaged ashokan column is one of the few standing structures among the ruins .
the palace in chail , which is one of the most ebullient of all hill stations in india , is a treat to visit .
another beautiful shrine , the gita mandir , located on the mathura - vrindavan road has a fine image of shri krishna in its sanctum .
it is known from history that palaces like ` ` soundarya vilasa ` ` , ` ` naama teertha ` ` etc and 11 canons were placed in the palaces in different places .
pongal was originally a festival for the farming community , but today it has become one of south india s most popular festivals .
india is home to a disparate but enchanting medley of beatific and moss covered mountainous terrains , which are a sight to behold and a must - visit for all people who have a yen for backpack traveling .
jeep safaris are organized in every part of rajasthan , but safaris organized to the bishnoi village near jodhpur have a special attraction for tourists .
pheidias began working on the statue around 440 bc. years earlier , he had developed a technique to build enormous gold and ivory statues .
trains connect udhagamandalam indirectly to the rest of country .
before coming together at the high pinnacle , the uprights appear to burst out of the ground and in a way to be shaped by the action of the wind .
adjacent rooms contain 17th and 18th century murals illustrating scenes from indian epics like the ramayana and mahabharata .
dachigam was at one time the exclusive hunting preserve of the maharaja of kashmir .
in osian the tourist 's have the liberty to watch the architectural forms during that camel ride and return back to the camps or the resorts followed by drinks and thematic evening of performing arts and a choice of oriental cuisines arranged in the ethnic style of that region .
the tropic of cancer runs through the heart of mizoram , and hence , it has a pleasantly temperate climate throughout the year .
udaipur is situated in the southern part of rajasthan and surrounded by the aravalli range .
agra is also well known for petha , dalmoth and gajak .
this massive fort is flanked by tall and huge gateways and watchtowers and makes a great place to visit during your historical tours to jaipur , rajasthan , india .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
it also has an auditorium , which can accommodate 4000 people at a time and is the largest in asia .
the assembly of the tower was a marvel of precision , as all chroniclers of the period agree .
lyon 's range stock exchange , behind clive street , is worth a visit for a glimpse of the frenzied dealing in shares , periodically erupting onto the street .
most of these smaller roads , especially those that run parallel to the coast , qualify as scenic drives because of the terrain that they traverse .
the surrounding area will also be revitalized and it is hoped that a new rail link to the area will also be created .
jodhpur , called the land of the dead , was founded by rao jodha , the chief of a clan known as the rathores in 1459 .
now , chail could measure up to a much larger shimla , the summer capital of the british empire , and another hill station in india .
some of the palaces were decorated with painted murals which represent the finest flowering of the bundela school of painting .
the ancient city of ephesus nears the modern town of selcuk , about 50 km south of izmir ( smyrna ) in turkey .
ludhiana is another prominent industrial city of punjab known for its hosiery and woollen garments sold in prestigious shopping stores all over the world .
the city of shahjahanabad was the capital of shah jahan but little remains of that old city .
ancient archaeological remains and nazca lines augment peru 's sense of mystery , of possessing an awesomeness of both humankind and nature .
ajanta has been designated as a world heritage site , to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will come to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come .
here you will find the very heart of london : the original settlement from which the rest of london has sprawled .
instead he made them a feature of the building by putting them on the outside .
a heavy brocade paithani takes at least 6 months to complete and costs over rs 50 , 000 , while an ordinary paithani sari takes about a month to complete and costs between rs 8 , 000 and rs 15 , 000 .
the beautiful verdant land surrounded by lust green hills beckons you with its rolling meadows , terraced gardens , cottages in native style and river sakartod flowing past it .
the mysore palace is also thrown open to the visitors and the royal throne is displayed .
if you ' re an old agra hand of course , you ' ll be quite at home in this crazy bustling town .
in the kutch museum is a ready introduction to the tribal art forms where unique embroidery is produced by humble women living in clay huts , themselves of outstanding beauty and ingenuity .
bhubaneswar is the nearest railhead , at a distance of 65kms and these two stations are connected to all the major cities in india through long-distance trains .
its designer sir giles gilbert scott also designed the famous anglican cathedral in liverpool .
wenlock downs is about 8km. from ooty on the gudalur road .
flooding of water created shallow wetland ecosystem causing bharatpur bird sanctuary to be perfect habitat for an astounding variety of birds .
ajmer sharief is famous for the tomb of hazrat moinuddin chishti , the saint who founded the sufi order .
the unique characteristic of india is its unity in diversity although there are many cultures and religions and languages .
in fact , the most magical way to explore the sands of rajasthan , especially the unending sand dunes of jaisalmer and bikaner , is on camel back .
he is undoubtedly the samudra gupta of kashmir .
kashmir 's greatest historian kalhan writes about his native land : ` ` it is a country where the sun shines mildly , being the place created by rishi kashyap , for his glory - big and lofty houses , learning , saffron , icy cool water and grapes rare in heaven are plentiful here - kailash is the best place in the three worlds ( tri-lok ) , himalayas the best place in kailash , and kashmir the best place in himalayas .
india travel destinations provides the visitor with an all-enabling kitty of info bytes with its proposed programme of sightseeing for the tourist to experience the backstage of the scene of hill stations in india .
opposite ' the house ' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians .
mizoram , or the land of mizos ( highlanders ) , has international boundaries with myanmar and bangladesh while it shares its domestic borders with the states of assam , manipur and tripura .
the king 's chamber is located at the heart of the pyramid , only accessible through the great gallery and an ascending corridor .
however , it is also famous for the agra fort , which is a veritable treasure trove of the mughal architectural tradition .
the present medaled ghat road from kallar to coonoor , a distance of 25 km which has 14 hair-pin bends and a gradient of one 18 ft , which facilitated carriage traffic from madras to ooty , was mainly constructed by colonel g.v. law in 1871 .
purwar museum , wonderful personal collection is housed in a lovely haveli and is the work of a retired doctor mr. purwar .
mysore is synonymous with dasara celebrations .
the main states of southern india are tamilnadu , kerala , maharashtra , andhrapradesh and karnataka .
itanagar is situated at the foothills .
the daria daulat , tipu s summer palace with a beautifully gilded and painted interior and the majestic gumbaz his mausoleum , are located close to the river .
the main rivers that flow through nagaland are dhansiri , doyang , dikhu and jhanji .
the meeting point is known as triveni and is especially sacred to hindus .
the paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of the buddha and various buddhist divinities .
little wonder , then , that its environment is so rich .
besides the modern city itself , there are several interesting towns like mamallapuram and kanchipuram , each with a rich collection of ancient temples and an array of traditional handicrafts which are very much their own .
there is also a statue of emmeline pankhurst ( 1858-1928 ) , the british suffragette , whose efforts finally won women the right to vote .
then in the early 1800s mount abu was developed into a hill station where british officials from the hot , dusty plains of rajasthan could seek refuge during the summer months , among the eucalyptus forests and oleanders .
the other version is that shiva ( the hindu god of destruction ) along with a crore of gods and goddesses were on a pilgrimage .
temples in bhubaneshwar are built on a common plan as prescribed by hindu norms and it is believed that the beauty of this place inspired rabindranath tagore to write poetry in the praise of bhubaneshwar .
langthabal offers a view of the manipur university .
the sariska park is home to numerous carnivores including leopard , wild dog , jungle cat , hyena , jackal , and tiger .
the most important are the chaunseth yogini temple dedicated to goddess kali , the mahadev temple , chitragupta or bharatji temple with a lovely image of 11 headed vishnu , vishvanath and nandi temples , lakshmana temple , visha temple of shiva , which is the largest and most typical of temples .
fatehgarh sahib is a great tirath of sikhs ; it has a serene and majestic commemorative gurudwara in the memory of the two younger sons of the 10th guru , guru gobind singh .
there must be hope that the political climate becomes just as clement very soon .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river run in the world .
in order to augment its revenue , the ooty municipality has been permitted to levy a toll fee on all vehicles entering the nilgris from tamil nadu and karnataka .
if the ajanta and ellora caves figure in your travel plans , as they should , make it a point to spend a couple of days in aurangabad and you will not be disappointed .
by road silchar to aizawl ( 180 km ) is a 68 hr journey on the national highway 54 . reasonably good roads link guwahati ( 506 km ) , imphal ( 374 km ) , kohima ( 497 km ) , shillong ( 430 km ) and agartala ( 443km ) to aizawl .
parasailing is a sport , which is a combination of skydiving and para gliding both being high on adrenaline sports , rolled in to one .
cunningham records a large find of silver coins of azes ( and azilies ) ( coins of indo-scythians ) on the banks of vitasta ( river jhelum ) in the hills between varahmulla and jhelum .
he would quickly corner huge tracts of land , many times more than the other entire european settler put together .
indian narian kartikeyan has already made a name for himself in the high speed world of motor racing .
the story of taj mahal is inseparable from the life of mumtaz who was the chief queen of sahajahan .
the fortress is built on a granite hill 120 meters high and its gates are studded with menacing iron spikes , intended to discourage elephants from battering them down .
all the important towns of the region like bhilai ( 25 km ) , durg ( 41 km ) , jagadalpur ( 297 km ) , rajnandgaon ( 70 km ) , bilaspur ( 115 km ) jabalpur ( 369 km ) and bhopal ( 712 km ) are connected with raipur by road .
at the city 's stock exchange , millionaires and paupers are made overnight and the sidewalks are crowded with vendors hawking everything from ballpoint pens to second hand mixies .
today the fort is open for the public but only limited area can be accessed , more than half of the fort area has been taken over by the army .
manori beach , maharastra travel guide , north of mumbai , and away from its busting crowds and pollution , are these three gems that have become popular havens for mumbai 's beleaguered fun lovers .
you may even hire 4wds but buses are definitely safer because they move with armed escorts .
rock climbing is largely balanced and not strength .
singing boatmen will row you across the lake to the palace , which is a fairy tale delight in striking white and red .
the gradient best suited for canoeing is the stage near the river 's entry into the plains where the trip can be combined with moderate hiking and a naturalist ' holiday in the forest .
its effect was a burst of almost ethereal clarity , of the kind only metal creates , piercing the architectural landscape of paris .
orchha was the capital of the bundela rajputs between 1531 and 1783 .
now declared a protected national park , one can see over 300 species of migratory birds , including the endangered siberian cranes coming to nest in winter .
ashoka founded the old city of srinagar called now as pandrethan ` ` , ( puranadhisthan ) and also build many vihars and temples and repaired the old shrine .
the territory was then declared the colony of british guiana , a status which it retained until independence in 1996 .
with the defeat of tippu sultan by the british at srirangapatna in 1799 , five years old prince krishnaraja wodeyar ( iii ) was installed the king of mysore on the throne of his ancestors .
kalindikhal trek starts at nandanvan and ends at badrinath .
the colonial cantonment area to the north is a neatly laid out grid plan of avenues and bungalows along with churches and important educational institutions .
the boat race is held in mid january for tourists , while the real competition is scheduled for the second saturday of august , every year .
the best time to visit ahmedabad is between october and march .
no pilgrimage to mathura is complete without a visit to its kunds .
the city includes other fascinating monuments and structures , such as urn tomb and the royal tombs , the colonnade street , the temples of dushara and al-uzza , and the high place of sacrifice .
sir mirza ismail ( dewan from 1926 to 1941 ) , a great aesthete himself , did much to enhance the city 's aesthetics .
the trekker in the process , also , gets an exposure to the intriguing socio cultural life of the people living in the chaudans , byans , and darma valleys .
bolghatty palace , situated on the palm-fringed bolghatty island , amidst 15 acres of lush green lawns , was built by the dutch in 1744 .
in the subsequent years of struggle for independence from colonial rule allahabad became one of the focal points of the freedom fighters .
the word ' hari 'stands for god and ' jan 'stands for people therefore the word harijan meant ' the people of god .
the increasing amount of visitors during the late fifties led to the installation of large capacity machinery in the north pier in 1965 .
completed in 1653 a . d , the taj mahal was built , by the mughal emperor shah jahan as the final resting place for his favorite queen , mumtaz .
a supreme court order banning polluting industries evoked strong protest from the local entrepreneurs but the process of relocation of industrial units and of creating a 2 kms exclusion zone for petrol and diesel vehicles around the taj has begun.z .
himachal pradesh was made a centrally administered territory in 1948 with the integration of 31 hill states and obtained additional regions in 1966 .
the mehrangarh fort is located at a distance of almost 5 kilometers from the main jodhpur city in rajasthan , india .
the port blair is the landing and departure point for boat excursions in the andamans , is an ideal base for touring the archipelago of 321 islands .
andhra pradesh has given the world a number of forms of performing arts , handlooms and curios .
surrounding the streets of fine shops are quiet roads containing some of the most expensive real estate in the world .
the ettumanoor shiva temple 12 km north of town has exceptionally beautiful wall paintings and sculptures inside the temple .
in imphal one can visit - govindajee temple , shaheed minarin , tikendrajit park , war cemetry , state museum , khwairamband bazaar .
however , some argue that antarctica is changing , and by human made causes rather than natural ones .
its rich flora , diversity of demography and biodiversity makes it one of the most poetically pleasing hill stations in india .
cities of andhra pradesh have interesting examples of european architecture as well as domestic vernacular architecture .
in spite of being seedy , grubby and altogether unattractive , camden town still manages to draw heaps of visitors keen to sample its vibrant market and underground music scene .
in sree chitra art gallery there is also a fabulous collection of oriental art from the far east and bali .
tamdil is a natural lake amidst virgin forests of saitaui village with boating facilities to add to its appeal .
it may be surprising to know that they might have never existed except in the minds of greek poets and historians .
a second theory suggests that the blocks were placed using long levers with a short angled foot .
the most celebrated of shri krishna 's abode , gokul lies to the west of sadabad , 1.6 km from mahavan and 15 km south-east of mathura .
the linear leisure valley was sculpted from a dried riverbed ; it is over 8 km long and runs through most of chandigarh .
jain temples are situated inside the fort of kanali on the hills overlooking the betwa .
the lowlands , found further to east , are home to some of the nation 's most beautiful and important rivers : the putumayo , the napo , and the pastaza .
the indian map as it exists today came into being only in the post-1945 period .
look up north and you will see a mighty nation , whose feet are washed by three oceans .
this old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
it was raja wodeyar who , in 1610 , set up headquarters at srirangapatna after asserting his independence from the vijayanagar viceroy .
kufri is a small hill station near shimla .
one of the legacies left behind by the british much like cricket and hockey is polo .
the victoria falls offer an inescapable closeness to the natural elements .
nehru museum & planetarium - the teen murti house was the residence of india 's first prime minister pt. jawaharlal nehru .
the guildhall is the city of london 's civic headquarters .
the prayag sangeet samiti organizes dance and music evenings in the city .
not only in ancient times or the mediaeval period , delhi has been the center of any activity at all times .
jaipur is 262 kms from delhi and is well connected by road ; rail and air from all aver the country .
cochin is the commercial capital of kerala , and is sometimes referred to as the queen of the arabian sea .
the crowning ceremony of ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the fourth ` ` also took place here in 1902 .
this modern planetarium houses a fully computerized projector to depict the skies. it is situated at kotturpuram in the city .
the avalanche valley is a nice place for splendid walks and fishing and it is around 24km. from ooty town .
the main shopping areas are cg road , law garden and relief road and ashram road where you could visit any of the branches of the khadi gramodyog emporium , gurjari emporium ( ashram road ) , hastkala ( relief road ) , kapasi handicraft emporium ( cg road ) , saurashtra emporium ( ashram road ) , and bandhej ( mithakhali road .
if the crush of the market gets to you , wander down to the canal and jump onto a barge for a trip through the attractive residential area of little venice with its grand victorian villas .
its excellent workmanship and grand scale make it truly outstanding .
the enveloping atmosphere with its subtle harmonies of light and shade , fragrance and exhales the paradise , visionary splendors , and the music of the birds that defies definition would develop creative and constructive feelings in the hearts of those people who come here to enjoy the beauty of nature .
agra fort is located on the banks of the yamuna near the railway station .
antarctica is welcoming more tourist-orientated cruises and ferries to the region every year , and facilities are continually developing , with more accommodation , culinary and travel options available .
this peculiar hill resort bejeweled by the city center nakki lake , is one place amongst the hill stations in india which has a lot of legend attached to it .
the first half of the nineteenth century was marked by the industrial revolution in europe , in which the expanding science of metallurgy played a primary role .
king 's road is the main shopping area and provides a wealth of opportunity for the keen shopper .
after his death the house was converted into a memorial .
a keenly contested event , this rally is an inimitable display of well maintained cars of yesteryears .
international foreign exchange providers have several branches in the city .
a tour to dehradun would also reveal that this enchanting hill station in india also stands to host the respected forest research institute , wadia institute of himalayan studies and a branch of ongc , which makes it a hill station in india with a difference .
at the same time , marylebone houses trendy boutiques and some fine restaurants making the place particularly alluring .
it was named after its patron goddess shyamla devi , an incarnation of the goddesses kali .
regular bus services connect chandigarh with amritsar , delhi , dharamshala , kulu , manali , nangal , pathankot and shimla .
there is also one of abraham lincoln ( 1809-1865 ) , the 16th president of the usa .
a kilometer away from itmad-ud-daulah is chini ka rauza , the mausoleum of afzal khan , and the son of mirza ghiyath begh .
in mandi there are a couple of lakes to be visited .
this historical monument is situated atop a hill that is about 150 meters high and during your tours to this part of rajasthan you could trek up to the fort .
bangalore is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
the history of elephanta is the hoary mists of time .
the park lies 160 km ( 100 miles ) southeast of jabalpur in the state of madhya pradesh .
interstate bus services linking ahmedabad to other cities in the state and beyond are regular and efficient .
eventually it was bought by an entrepreneur who planned to gut the inside of the building and turn it into a giant theme park type amusement complex .
the astonishing part of these observatories is that they can calculate many astronomical movements very accurately .
the construction of taj mahal marble masterpiece is credited to the mughal emperor shah jahan who erected this mausoleum in memory of his beloved wife , arjumand bano begum , popularly known as mumtaz mahal , who died in ah 1040 ( ad 1630 .
here , a 250 year old historically important beacon of light is preserved intact in its original and primitive form built in the typical kerala architectural style , this temple is famous all over india for the palpayasam , the daily offering of deliciously sweet milk porridge .
the shrine is crowded throughout the year and the best time to visit is in the afternoon when the crowd thins out .
the architecture of the buildings of chamba reflects the aura of its former rulers .
if you walk through over the ground and beautifully unkempt cemetery at st. stephen s , which lies on a small outcrop behind what must be one of the country s prettiest churches , you will find the graves of sullivan s wife , henrietta , and his 16-year-old daughter , harriet .
mysore was the political capital of the wodeyar dynasty which ruled the state of karnataka for some 150 years till the independence of the country from the british .
during the first world war , it was used as a hospital .
it is less dangerous than the old spiral staircase , and would serve as an emergency staircase to evacuate the public , should the need arise .
the hill station is well known for its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery .
though very old ( the gateway leading from chancery lane dates back to the 1500 's ) , lincoln 's inn is still very much in use today by the legal profession .
a wide and straight road , it is at its best when being used for royal ceremonies , when union jacks or the national flags of visiting heads of state are flown from flagpoles , along the length of the road .
visitors may fix an appointment with the concerned authorities prior to the visit .
characterized by beautiful georgian houses running along the bank of the thames and surrounded by the green expanses of barnes common , putney common and the vast acres of richmond park , barnes does indeed seem a world away from the hustle and bustle of london .
one of the temple 's outer walls carries an exquisite carving of sri krishna playing his flute , and within , there is a fine statue of lord ganesha .
in allahabad the british formally transferred the governance of india from the east india company to the crown .
the fifth largest state of india , andhra pradesh is irrigated by the mighty krishna and the godavari rivers and is aptly termed as the ' rice granary of india .
the hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from jain mythology .
periyar and kumily are the most convenient points from which visitors can easily explore kerala s beautiful cardamom hills .
constructed by sultan qutub-ud-din , kankaria lake is a popular recreational spot for people of ahmedabad .
it has been said that while sitting on a broken tomb to eat his lunch , he saw a shaft of sunlight shine through a crack in the tomb lid and this led him to imagine what would happen if the sunlight awoke the occupant below .
if constructed under such circumstances , a large land area would be flooded .
though most of his forts are located inland and have now become weekend tourist attractions for the locals , quite a few of them are located on the coastline and fortunately are not tourist attractions .
among its much architectural games are the places for his queens jodha bai , mariyam and his turkish sultana , built in varying styles , each perfect in it .
hriday kunj is one of the important historical sites in gujarat as it was here that mahatma gandhi initiated his practical experiments with respect to a nonviolent satyagraha and freedom struggle for the country .
catholic cathedral is the aradura hill is an important landmark in kohima for it is one of the biggest cathedrals in the whole north - eastern hills .
in the st. mary s church kuravilangad built in 355 ad there is an old bell which bears a hitherto undeciphered inscription .
kullu is famous for its apple orchards , wooden temples , folk music and dances and their handsome hill folk .
each sector of the city is designed with its own shops , academic , and health care buildings , and places of worship , open spaces , greenery and the residential areas .
in 1859 , egyptian workers started working on the construction of the canal in conditions described by historians as slave labour , and the project was completed around 1867 .
monsoons should be avoided climbing is relatively safe , but that shouldn t stop all climbers from taking precautions .
white churches dot the landscape leaving no doubt that the city is devoutly christian .
meghalaya is divided into five administrative districts of the jaintia hills , east and west garo hills and east and west khasi hills .
the shreyas folk museum displays some of the finest examples of the traditional arts & crafts of gujarat .
also in sector 1 , the sukhna lake is an artificial reservoir , a popular place to hang out , one can expect to find residents of the city jogging or strolling along the banks .
the revenue from the canal , he argued , would help finance the high dam project .
jantar mantar , the unique observatory was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
throughout the centuries , armies were garrisoned along the length of the wall to provide early warning of invasion and a first line of defense .
himachal pradesh is an excellent area to visit , for wildlife lovers , bird watchers and adventurous tourists.shimla is a popular city of tourists .
though agra is more famous world over as the city of taj , agra fort is another dimension to the city that attracts tourists in hordes .
it bears the name of the 85 , 000 indian army soldiers who died in the campaigns of ww1 , the north-west frontiers operations and the 1919 afghan fiasco .
it was built in honor of the greek goddess of hunting , wild nature , and fertility .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tours to historical monuments in gujarat in west india .
today sections of this city wall are still visible , mingling among the office blocks .
the ' war on drugs ' has long dominated relations between peru and the usa .
sanganer is known for its jain temples and carvings , besides being famous for its hand made paper and block-printed fabrics .
he made the journey up from calicut , but all that remains of his visit to todamala is a small fragment that reveals he tried to converse with the badagas about christianity and that he gave toda women looking glasses and hanks of thread , with which they were very much pleased .
the chenna kesava temple of belur built 900 years ago is an exquisite example of hoysala art .
remarkably , he also advocated the view that the todas had total proprietary rights over the lands in the nilgiris plateau and that they must receive compensation for any land acquired from them. considering the times he lived in , sullivan s views suggest that he was an extraordinarily liberal man .
in fact , he undertook conquest of many countries solely for the purpose of stopping animal slaughter .
the thar or the great indian desert , as it is generally known , is a fascinating area .
mysore in spite of being ruled by different rulers and kingdoms for ages still retains its old charm and stately beauty .
he spent several years in the south west of france , where he supervised work on the great railway bridge in bordeaux , and afterwards he set up in his own right in 1864 as a ` ` constructor ` ` , that is , as a business specializing in metal structural work .
ayodhya is situated on the right bank of the river ghagra or saryu , as it is called within sacred precincts .
as the demand for agricultural and horticultural crops is bound to increase in the years to come , steps should be taken to rejuvenate agriculture and horticulture .
it is amazing that these blocks have simply been fitted together since at the time of being built , there was no mortar .
agra is famous for handicrafts products such as inlay work on marvel , leatherwork , footwear , and brass wear , carpets , jewelry , zari and embroidery work .
the lighthouse continues to be mentioned in their writings and travelers accounts .
paintings of the dasavatharam are on display on the inner walls of the chuttambalam ottanthullal , a satiric art form originated by the poet kunchan nambiar , was first performed on the premises of this temple .
bangalore has seen a major technology boom and is now home to more than 250 high-tech companies , including homegrown giants like wipro and infosys .
a long line of picturesque ghats with their steps leading to the water s edge , arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right banks of the river yamuna , emphasis the sacred character of the town of mathura .
netaji subhash road is the centre of the onetime english commercial houses which today flourish in indian hands .
believable , considering that thiruvananthapuram remains one of the biggest centres for sea-bound harbour .
natural attractions are being promoted with increased local participation and encouragement to herbal gardens and natural health resorts .
we know , for instance , that he was extremely well disposed towards the tribal population an attitude that brought him into conflict with senior government officials .
the makrana marble used is of such a nature that it takes on incredibly subtle variations of tint and tone , according to the changes in the light , thus picturing the passing color of the moment .
agra is mentioned in the ancient epic mahabharata as agrabana , the sister city of the more prominent mathura .
at its centre is the statue commonly known as eros but which is actually called the angel of christian charity .
1575 ad emperor akbar founded the city in by the name of illahabas which has now become allahabad meant .
the marwar is the main festival which takes place in the month october .
from siddharth to sakyamuni and finally to the buddha bodhgaya or the enlightened one , an incredible transformation of a prince to an enlightened teacher , who walked the earth more than 2500 years ago .
she built many temples and monasteries and one of these was reserved for people of madyadesha and lata ( u . p . , bihar and central india .
nimaj also covers a unique art gallery showcasing some masterpieces of sculptural art , adorned within natural surroundings so as to provide an authentic ambience .
the most celebrated temples of osian are the surya or sun temple and the sachiya mata temple .
for seventeen years , twenty thousand workmen are said to be employed on it daily , for their accommodation a small town , named after the deceased empress ' mumtazabad , now known as taj ganj , was built adjacent to it .
the roads are smooth four lane highways in some parts of the state and two lanes elsewhere , but all roads are well maintained and have motels , restaurants and gas stations at regular intervals .
away from hustle and bustle chail is quite peaceful and comfortable place to visit .
it was the centre of most powerful buddhist sect of northern india known as 'sarvastivada ' .
mexico city has a peculiar charm , possessing mexico in microcosm : pollution and poverty intermingled with streets named after philosophers .
contact the conservator of forests in agartala for booking accommodation in the forest bungalow here , which has well kept gardens and provides reasonably good food .
every year the grounds of the hospital open to the public for the world famous chelsea flower show n one of london 's great social events .
made of local golden-yellow sandstone and wood , some of the havelis are still in excellent condition .
the beautiful marble tomb of sheikh salim chishti still attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint .
the eighteenth century novelist henry fielding lived in one of the houses overlooking the pond and handel is known to have composed in the area .
this is also a jolly good place to come if you like brass rubbing ! location : byward street , london , ec3r 5bj .
regular bus service connect bangalore to belgaum , bihar , bijapur , mumbai , coimbatore , goa , hospet , hyderabad , chennai , madikere , madurai , mangalore , mysore , tirupati , nandi hills , chanrajaragar , jog falls , ootacamund ( ooty ) , raichur , ernakulam , gulbarga , pondicherry , calicut , dharwar etc .
this place is particularly popular among the children .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
from the tumultuous sea of puri and konark , rath yatra at puri the pilgrims wend their way to the jagannath temple and the exquisite sun temple .
it was agra that babar , the founder of the dynasty , had the first formal persian garden laid out on the banks of the river yamuna .
if you can imagine an indian version of las vegas and disney world rolled into one , this would probably be mount abu .
traverse the lonely stretches of the that desert , like the travelers of old .
while talking of dalhousie one must not fail to mention khajiar which is a big hit with the tourists in himachal pradesh as a popular hill station in india .
historically , the gateway holds greater sigbnificance as the last of the british troops left independent india by sea , marched through its portals .
this famous historical monument is in ruins but still warrants a visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region .
built from 1975 to 1991 , in a binational development on the paran river , itaip represents the efforts and accomplishments of two neighboring countries , brazil and paraguay .
centrally located in the western part of the state rajasthan , the jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces , forts & temples , worth visiting .
the usa is a huge country to explore , with 50 states to choose from , flanked by two oceans and covering an incredibly varied terrain .
banking hours usually are 10 am to 2 pm monday to friday and 10 am to 12 noon on saturdays .
the discovery of oil and the sharp increase in world oil prices in the late and mid 70s should have transformed ecuador 's economic fortunes .
the dhauladhars - the ' white ranges ' rise upto 14 , 000 ft. from the valley floor like a massive wall providing a dramatic back drop to this soothing landscape .
olympia was further struck by earthquakes , landslides and floods , and the temple was damaged by fire in the fifth century ad .
ooty is a land of picturesque picnic spots .
on the left wall is a fragment of a painting showing the buddha preaching to the congregation .
the new docklands is a fine example of this ability .
these divide the state into five river valleys ; the kameng , the subansiri , the siang , the lohit and the tirap .
if you are armed with a sketch of an original ground plan and elevation of stone house , you can identify the exact portions of the old residence - the very first european house in ootacamund that were incorporated with the secretariat office building .
agartala agartala , the capital city of tripura , lies barely 2 km from the bangladesh border and 3 hours by road from dacca .
the beacon is composed of four marine-type , motorized projectors .
shravanabelagola is a famous jain pilgrimage with a 17m high monolith of lord bahubali standing tall .
to watch migratory birds , november to february is the best time .
kumily , the nearest town from periyar national park is well served by both state and private buses from kottayam , ernakulam and madurai in tamil nadu .
the governor of tripura now lives in a palace that was built in 1917 and named ` ` by birendra krishna manikya , a km away from the ujjayanta palace .
there are daily film shows which are screened in a specially designed auditorium .
safari as a term in english language refers to a long journey , an odyssey with the distance to be traveled to be through a wilderness in order to give the goose bumps to the wary traveler , which is a unique aspect of adventure tourism in india .
the imposing red gothic structure within this park is seshadri iyer memorial hall , which houses the public library .
the mughal garden is located in the premises of the president house but this garden is not opened to public viewing .
honeymooners in india can very well afford to explore this second and lesser-explored facet of goan beauty for a honeymoon in goa as a honeymoon destination in india .
the bull temple is believed to have been constructed in the 16th century ad .
the british ultimately prevailed following the defeat of napoleon in 1815 .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
strangely , the hall tends to be ignored , except for on state occasions .
when not away , the queen and prince philip spend most weekends at windsor castle , where they enjoy horse riding .
there is now ample opportunity to ascend mount erebus , the southernmost active volcano on earth ; to fly via helicopter or venture by boat to penguin colonies ; to really make the most of a terrain that teems with wildlife , with a multitude of birds , seals , albatrosses and enormous whales ; and so on .
museums , theatres , exhibitions , shows , popular feasts .
lining the east of the city is the famous marina beach .
the british sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country .
the renowned jagannath temple built in the 15th century ad and crowned with vishnu 's wheel and flag dominate the landscape at puri .
the enchanting hawa mahal is a multi-layered palace , with a profusion of windows and stone screens .
shah jahan made alterations by pulling down many of the original buildings and replacing them with marble ones .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar minaret stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
the first phase of the ride is easy , through thick peripheral reserve forests of sal .
it was created by nek chand saini , a resident of the city , in 1958 , he used discarded objects of everyday use like bottles , tin cans , broken plugs , plates , saucers and rocks from the nearby shivalik mountains to create a 40-acre fantasy labyrinth garden with arched walkways , streams , bridges , grottos , battlements , turrets and sculptures of people and animals .
on the right wall of the shrine are painted the seven manushi buddhas with maitreya , under their respective boddhi trees .
karnataka has its famed temple sites like belur , halebid , aihole , badami and hampi .
the ganges river , which forms the backbone of uttar pradesh , is the holy river of hinduism and there are several important pilgrimage towns along it .
both towns are famous for their delicious chikki ( molasses candy ) and chocolate fudge .
taj mahal architecture has an impressive watercourse , which neatly divides the garden into four equal parts and heightens the flawless symmetry of the entire complex .
kerala is closer to public conscience as a land of sleepy backwaters and sunlit horizons with boats fading out in the distance to quarters accessible only to the famed boatmen .
the most beautiful and most famous monument in the city , angkor wat , lies about one kilometer south of the royal town of angkor thom which was founded by jayavarman vii .
to the west of bhavnagar , situated at the base of girnar hills is junagarh , its special claim to fame is the rock edicts of emperor ashoka , dating back to 250 bc .
his father , john lockwood kipling , was the principal of the art school and under his tutelage , many local artisans received training. some of their works were used to adorn the buildings being constructed in mumbai during that period as sculptured panels and motifs .
the mystique of aboriginal tribal ethno-medicine which predates even ayurveda has been preserved and practiced over the millennia .
pathiramanal ( sands of midnight ) , an enchanting island on the lake , can be accessed by boat from kumarakom .
a mini garden with an amusement part for children and a toy train are added attractions at ooty lake .
constructed in honey-colored basalt , the gateway was designed by george wittet , inspired by 16th century gujarat style .
skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience , which does not require special gear like other sports of the same genre .
the santhome cathedral was built by the portuguese between the 14th and the 15 century ad and derived its name after st. thomas .
many of the churches in the city are known as ' guild churches ' to some of the city 's livery companies , ancient institutions which .
this beautiful building is 245 ft in length and 156 ft in width .
trivandrum is also a bustling city , where the business of life is carried out like it is around the world , interspersed with everyday visit to the nearby temple or mosque .
in kumarakom the monsoon are early june to mid august , november to march considered the best months .
the company had by this time mastered perfectly the principle of building bridge supports .
after 16thcenturies later , bangalore became an important fortress city under rulers hyder ali and tipu sultan .
jaipur is also famous for marble statues , blue pottery and the rajasthani shoes .
on top of a hill in sndar nagar and visited by thousands of devotees every year , are the sukhdev vatika and temple of mahamaya .
it is one of the world 's economic giants and is revered for its football prowess , coffee production and distinctive music such as samba and bossa nova .
specialist equipment such as ropes is often used to protect climbers from falls .
on 27 august 1883 , the indonesian island of rakata almost vanished .
situated about 30 km from the city , the zoological park is spread over an area of 510 hectares .
all east bound traffic coming from the north has to pass allahabad .
however , the greek historian strabo had stated that the gardens were situated by the river euphrates .
brindavan gardens is the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors .
as well as the world 's biggest rainforest in the amazon , brazil boasts many wilderness areas including the wildlife-rich wetlands of the pantanal , the canyons and caves of the chapada diamentina , and the mata atlantic ( atlantic forest ) , which runs for much of the length of brazil 's coastline .
economy besides tourism , agra has also grown into an important centre for handicrafts and small industries .
many buddhist scholars , missionaries , and intellectuals permanently settled in the valley .
patwon ki haveli is one of the largest and most elaborate havelis in jaisalmer , it is five stories high and extensively carved .
untouched by the consumerism that has devoured most beaches near bombay and goa - - thereby driving it out of the reach of an average income earner - - these maharashtra locales suffer from no such ruin .
children book trust of india is in the same building .
the vibrant and fun filled marwar festival is held annually and is a celebration that brings to life the essence of all that rajasthan stands for .
the coastal water surrounding the islands andamans and lakshadweep is the abode of one of the richest coral reef ecosystem in the world .
the gurudwara has been extended from time to time and it tough to tell apart the original structure anymore .
bangalore is generally regarded as a place that most visitors like to chill out in .
kaina is a scared place of hindus and is 29 kms. from imphal.khonghampat orchidarium is the orchid yard of the forest department , on the national highway no 39 and is another place of interest and more than 110 varieties of orchids including several rare species are grown here .
since the nineteenth century , archeological excavations have been undertaken at the mausoleum site .
offer the rare opportunity to see the wild buffalo , gaur , tiger , and leopard , singing maina and wide variety of antelopes in sylvan surroundings .
there is a priceless art collection among other exhibits and the palace also hosts an annual classical music festival between 27th january and 3rd february .
the temple of lord jagannath ( lord of the universe ) built during the 12th century a.d. by chodaganga deva dominates the landscape for kilometers around .
visakapattinam in andhra pradesh is also a good city having one of the biggest harbors of india carrying out large exports and imports .
though delhi is fast being converted into a concrete jungle , the delhi development authority is trying best to provide the residents of delhi with some greenery by construction of parks and gardens .
one of the major attention grabber after the bharatpur sanctuary is government museum of bharatpur , which provides a glimpse of the past royal splendour of bharatpur .
bunches of dry palm fronds , ( chootu ) are lit and carried in procession around the temple before the performances .
when parliament is sitting a light is turned on above the clock tower that houses big ben , and a flag is flown from victoria tower ( the tall tower at the opposite end from big ben 's clock tower .
eiffel built hundreds of metal structures of all kinds all around the world .
unlike any other city , the jaisalmer desert fortress is one of rajasthan 's most exotic and unusual towns .
goa beaches are famed all over the world for their pristine charm and the golden sand like appearance of some of the beaches are similar to the golden sand of the mythical ` ` keelavi beach ` ` of phantom , the caped comic character who celebrated his own honeymoon with his better half , diana palmer , in the golden beaches of kelawi , in the middle of tribal dwarfs-men. .
it was re-dug during the rule of the roman emperor trajan , and later the arab ruler amr ibn-al-aas. .
versed in many languages , a good poet , lover of music and art , he started his rule in a remarkable way , and became famous in northern india .
the convexity has deliberately been given to the plinth in the centre of each arch , or else the building would have appeared as if it were falling down ! the facades are not exactly at a right angle with the plinth , but are slightly inclined .
dhruva teela , this marks the place where the child dhruva meditated single mindedly as he stood on one leg .
a nearby snowline with numerous streams and cool healthy atmosphere makes the surroundings very attractive .
out in the desert , and just 40 kilometers south-west of jaisalmer , lays the village of khuri , the main attraction here is the desert solitude and beautifully decorated houses of mud and straw .
the railfall of arunachal pradesh is amongst the heaviest in the country .
the craftsmen of andhra have given to india their unique creations - kalamkari vegetable dyed textiles , lacquer paintings from nirmal , wood craft , pochampalli silks , hyderabad pearls and an extremely attractive and glittering array of glass bangles .
it is a land of lush green forests , deep river valleys and beautiful plateaus .
london 's largest coach station is here as well as victoria train station which has a link to gatwick airport .
the rates are negotiable because they change frequently according to your nationality and clothes ! november to march is the best time to visit with the mercury dropping to a comfortable range between 1 c and 29 celsius .
other than the monsoon between may and october , which are long and heavy , summer temperature goes up to 32 c while winters are a pleasant 29 c .
occupied for almost 700 years the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
legend says the town was settled by descendants of the pandavas who fled the flooded city of hastinapur .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , presents the willing and exploring tourist to discover and partake of the glorious sight of camel safaris in india , which is a very popular aspect of adventure tourism in india .
the island palace-jal mahal built by sawai madho singh as a pleasure spot at the centre of the man sagar lake , and the kanak vrindavan complex of temples and gardens recently renovated to its pristine glory .
shimla is a popular city with tourists .
the maha kumbh mela - the ` ` great ` ` kumbh mela - is the largest religious fair in india .
after the power station closed down , a number of suggestions were put forward for its feature .
vidhana soudha is located at the northern boundary of cubbon park , this majestic building , with a total plinth area of over 5 , 00 , 000 sq. ft is built in a neo-dravidian style .
around you are a dazzling array of churches - 39 anglican ( church of england ) and 7 other denominations .
bangaram island situated in the bay of bengal , the andaman and nicobar islands are still largely undiscovered by mass tourism .
a beautiful garden , the nehru park , lies close to the bharatpur museum .
sariska national park s dense forests make its terrain an ideal one for the tiger , leopard , porcupine , chowsingha , rhesus and langur .
a white marble building with intricately carved lattice screens and engravings in mother of pearl , lapis lazuli and topaz .
because the palace was built in a very small duration of 2 years by the end of 19th centaury , it was in a bad condition and some of the parts started crumbling .
nearest underground stops : fulham broadway , parsons green .
the town is also well equipped with the excellent hotels and resorts for accommodation .
near kalbadevi are the jama masjid and the mumbadevi temple , dedicated to the patron goddess of mumbai 's original inhabitants .
the gajner wildlife sanctuary is 32 kms away from the bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds .
mysore is just 139 kms by road from bangalore .
mumbai 's international airport is at sahar ( 30 kms ) & domestic airport is at santacruz ( 26 kms .
history is alive and throbbing in delhi , the capital of india .
wherever you ' re going in the barbican , the best plan is to enter the centre by the nearest entrance .
you should not let your credit card out of sight , and avoid having goods shipped later , since many people have been cheated on them you will not be able to resist the marble inlay work and other local handicrafts .
the bikaner city is bolstered by imposing walls and has a 16th century fort housing old palaces , temples and a mosque .
visit the historic jallianwala bagh where gen. dyer 's bullets killed scores of innocent indians and the beautiful ram bagh gardens .
you can also see ashes from roman london , which was burnt down in ad 61 by boudicca .
now this palace is a five star hotel and attracts vips and tourists from foreign countries and rich people .
india 's first vacation train , palace on wheels started its royal journey in the year 1982 with the collective efforts of indian railway and rajasthan tourism development corporation .
seasonal skiers have clean stretches of absolutely virgin slopes to sport on .
the beauty of this art in fact enhances the purity of temple art forms .
although bolivia is landlocked , it never feels claustrophobic blessed with breathtaking lakes and lofty mountains .
the 14th century hill-fort , kesroli is the oldest heritage site in india where you can stay .
march to may ( warmest months ) , december to january ( coldest months ) , june to september ( rainy - southwest monsoon ) , november to december ( rainy - northeast monsoon ) are the best times to visit the bangalore .
it measures 4.57 meters in height and 6.10 meters in length .
adjacent to the snake park is a children 's park which has a large playing ground and collection of birds and animals .
you may not find international chains and super deluxe hotels , but some of the new ones have pretty good facilities and are of a fairly high standard .
the indian subcontinent perhaps had the largest network of rivers in the world .
the city that mughal emperor aurangzeb built in the dusk of his empire is aurangabad , the city that is base to the marvels of man - the ajanta and ellora caves .
the dewan-i-khas or the qutab minar place for special hearing was the area where the emperor used to hold meetings with his ministers .
high court s building , designed in the english gothic style , was built in 1878 ; the main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surrounded by statues representing justice and mercy .
rajarani temple got its name from a red - gold sand stone used , which is called rajarani locally and the temple has no presiding deity .
honeymoon hotels in chennai are replete with all the variety that a bustling metro pole can account for , for the benefit of honeymooners in india .
as in many parts of london , there are many fine white stucco fronted victorian houses and beautiful private squares .
most of them offer tour guide services , which is useful if you ' re stuck in a chaotic indian city , particularly if you ' re low on knowledge about its premier attraction .
khongjom situated on the indo-burma road , 36 kms. from imphal , this is a place of greatest historic importance where major general paona brajabashi , proved his valor against the superior force of the invading british army in 1891 .
the 20 , 000 flashes will also sound the gong at noon with a ten minute display of diamond sparkles .
the world famous savoy hotel is set back on a small street which has the curious accolade of being the only one in london where it is obligatory to drive on the right .
there is also the great indian bustard 's breeding site and exotic wildlife , where you can see the indian gazel , chinkara , eagles and many such birds and animals .
the rich bird life at the periyar national park includes the giant hornbill , cormorant , darter , osprey and racket-tailed drongo .
views on the new docklands in architectural terms may vary but it is beyond dispute that an exciting new area for living and working in has been created .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
in order to make the project more acceptable to public opinion , nouguier and koechlin commissioned the architect stephen sauvestre to work on the project 's appearance .
to a brit , the ' city ' does n't mean the whole of london but simply the 'square mile ' ( actually 1.08 square miles ) as it is colloquially known .
regular bus services connect bhopal with sanchi , indore , ujjain , mandu and pachmarhi .
gujarat is an important centre of industry and commerce in the country .
erected in memory of the poet saint thiruvalluvar , the shrine at nungambakkam is constructed after the temple car of thiruvarur .
this is supposed to be the second longest beach in the world and runs to a length of 12 km .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
india , a place of infinite variety , is fascinating with its ancient and complex culture .
mumbai is a cluster of seven islands .
however , the territory was largely neglected by paris and continued to deteriorate until civil unrest broke out in the 1970s .
goa is a premier beach vacation desination .
the palace is also the administrative headquarters of the monarchy .
it is the karkota dynasty that has given kashmir the greatest ruler lalitaditya muktapid ( 724 - 761 a. d .
bodies of all ages , colors and sizes don the very minimum in beachwear and idle away the days on the sun-kissed copacabana and ipanema beaches .
the jakhu temple is one of the most favoured spots for tourists apart from pilgrims .
next to dewan-i-khas are the royal baths or the hammams and shahi burj which are closed for public viewing .
the term dera refers to ` ` camp ` ` and dun points to ` ` a valley .
several religious , cultural and other programmes mark the 10-day-long celebrations , which fall generally in the months of september-october , depending on the auspicious days of the hindu calendar .
toy train is one of the few remaining diesel engine trains and although it spits up huge dark clouds of pollution , it is a major tourist attraction and a reminder of the indian railways glorious beginning .
lal bagh also houses the offices of the karnataka horticultural society that renders free advice to those interested in flowers and gardens .
two octagonal towers with their spiraled holding at their pinnacles two carved figures of justice and mercy are situated to the west of the central tower .
this court is generally used for the most serious of cases .
located at a distance of 16 km from jaisalmer , lodurva was ancient capital of jaisalmer .
during the persian invasion of egypt , king darius i ordered the canal completed .
mumtaz was very compassionate , generous and demure .
this fort , now in ruins , was the seat for administration for many emperors .
opens up new channels of opportunity through which tourists and the willing travellers alike can go ahead in their odyssey to discover the unheard of charms of dalhousie one of the most sought after hill stations in india in himachal pradesh. dalhousie as any tour to the eminently seeable hill station in india would reveal brings to fore the old era of british charm and the related suave sophistication .
the great wall started as earth works thrown up for protection by different states .
the former was a pious and a strong ruler with buddhist leanings .
between june and august the temperature may go up to 40-42 degree celsius .
according to mythology a young brahmin dived into the vembanad lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for land to rise from below , thus creating the enchanting island of pathiramanal ( sands of midnight .
the british called shimla the ` ` queen of hill stations ` ` situated in the north-west himalaya .
the centerpiece of this hall is the carved throne pillar , which supports a circular platform connected to the edges by four bridges .
robert delaunay gave it cubist facets in a whole series of canvases started in 1910 .
with a terrain that shifts from hill roads to forest tracks , desert trails to beach routes , india tests the mettle of both man and machine in motor rallies .
a massive structure in the shape of a four sided fort with circular bastions at each corner houses a temple of hanuman and is the most popular shrine in ayodhya .
under the canopy of the blue sky , set in the rolling green turf is a small but picturesque lake , with the added attraction of a floating island .
the scenic beauty of andaman & nicobar islands would create a sense of dissatisfaction and the human mind would rebel against the whole mass of the motley facts of life .
next to the magnificent task of laying the road to ooty , the british took up , around 1880 , the stupendous task of connecting mettupalayam to ooty by rail .
splendidly chic boutiques , exquisite antiques shops and hundreds of charming eighteenth and nineteenth century houses make chelsea one of the most desirable areas in london .
mysore is the cultural capital of karnataka .
ship lights twinkle in the distance , and marine drive , the city s most famous boulevard , decorates the bay in a dramatic arc of streetlights christened the queen s necklace .
barnes high street leads from the pond to the river thames and is filled with small grocers , green grocers , bakers and butchers .
vrindavan seems perpetually to be dreaming and imaginatively reliving its romantic past .
suitable in all weather as the boat has both covered and sun deck seating .
the entire building , when floodlight on sunday evenings , presents a truly breathtaking picture .
there was an outburst of literary activity on a grand scale , and eminent men kallata bhat sura , ratnakar , anandavardhana , muktakana , siva-swamin , rudrata and mukula. kalhan 's mention of numerous temples built and towns founded by the king , and his ministers throws plenty of light on the prosperous condition of the period .
resplendent in a florid and highly decorative french gothic style , the main building with its turrets and gabled roof has a large circular window , with its outer border originally made up of twelve stained glass skylights , depicting the signs of the zodiac .
the best preserved of these stone temples are at martand and avantipur .
the bangalore aquarium is the second largest in the country .
` ` sand boxes ` ` and hydraulic jacks - replaced after use by permanent wedges - allowed the metal girders to be positioned to an accuracy of one millimeter .
bairath is an important historical place with the excavated remains of a circular buddhist temple - unique in rajasthani and the earliest known temple in india .
the rhino emerges as if from prehistory and treads the kaziranga national park .
now the capital of one of the most fascinating states of india , kerala , thiruvananthapuram is an important entry point into india with communication links to maldives , sri lanka and many countries to the west of arabian sea .
according to legend , the origin of pushkar dates back to the time when lord brahma was on his way in search of a tranquil land to perform a ` ` yagna ` ` , a lotus fell from the hand of the lord into this valley .
49 kms from bangalore city , ramanagaram is famous for its rock formations , a great attraction for rock climbers .
the park has 35 species including the wild elephant , tiger , panther , wild dog , gour , samber , giant squirrel , lion-tailed macaque , civet , leopard , nilgiri tahr and nilgiri langur etc .
this is the oldest accurate information available regarding the mysore palace .
rajasthan - the land bejeweled with immense natural & architectural wonders .
carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers if you are staying in a hotel to maintain your own standards of cleanliness .
the cave temples and monasteries at ellora , excavated out of the vertical face of an escarpment are 26 kms north of aurangabad .
the nominal power of the plant is 12 , 600 mw , divided between 18 generating units of 700 mw each , 15 of which are located in the main powerhouse and the remaining three on the diversion channel .
the bharat milap temple is located in kamadgiri .
spanning more than 2000 km along the northeastern coast of australia , the great barrier reef is home to thousands of species of plants and animals .
for more information on these islands , contact a us embassy ; see usa section .
there are many other notable residents in the cemetery including george elliot , the british novelist and michael faraday .
by building small dykes and dams and diverting water from an irrigation canal , he converted this low lying area into a fine wild fowl shooting preserve .
the empress tomb , which is directly under the dome , has the 99 names of allah inscribed on it. shah jahan s cenotaph is higher and to the left. it has a pen box inscribed on it , which symbolizes a male ruler .
the hospitable and unselfish native tribal has their own customs , dances and rituals here which are quite fascinating .
teen darwaja s triple-arched gateway was originally meant to serve as the royal entrance to the maidan shahi or royal square .
the rig veda mentions about dasyus and nishads living in this region and their powerful king shambra who had 99 forts .
sas bahu ka mandir and teli ka mandir , two graceful temples dedicated to lord vishnu , built in a unique blend of architectural styles .
the wildlife sanctuaries and the national parks here give you an essence of the same .
dharamsala has risen to international repute as ` ` the little lhasa in india .
from manak chowk , one can walk into the lanes where the famous carved havelies are to be found .
when krakatau erupted again in 1883 , the island virtually collapsed into its cavity , 300 m below sea level .
a wonderful activity on an open landscape of thar desert , jeep safari offers an excellent opportunity to explore the beautiful , calm and colorful land of rajasthan .
the ascent of the uppermost terrace-roofs is made by a stairway .
the tourist has a vast expanse of meadows and grassy knolls to look forward to in this enchanting hill station in india , himachal pradesh .
the manipur zoological garden is about 6 kms. from imphal at iroishemba on the imphal kangchup road .
the main entrance to the monument is of red sandstone , with domed pavilions in the hindu style. the gateway is inscribed with verses from the koran , the lettering of which appear the same size through an illusion created by the craftsmen who enlarged and lengthened the letters at different positions .
common & most popular motorbike safari circuits are in north combining rajasthan , madhya pradesh , uttar pradesh south combining , tamil nadu , kerala , & karnataka .
mumbai was the dowry of portuguese princess infanta catherine de braganza who married charles ii of england in 1661 .
after the death of ashoka , his son jaluka ascended the throne of kashmir , and the latter was succeeded by his son king damodar ii .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam , the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
this temple was built by rani rashmoni in 1847 .
keep appointments , be punctual ( though that s a value that indians are only now picking up ) , and shake hands if one is offered or greet with hands folded in namaste .
camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to himachal and sharing the warmth of its people .
inaugurated on 14 august 1973 , museum of the evolution of life ( science museum ) is famous for a large gallery that depicts the origin of the earth and the evolution of life .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
it had two thrones on the terrace , one in white marble and one in black slate .
a pretty hill town , coonoor is located amidst tea gardens .
in the beautiful lake district of nainital , facilities of boating through yachts , paddleboats and traditional rowing boats are available .
dalhousie is spread over five hills and is different from other hill stations .
the tomb was designed by noor jahan and was the first mughal building using marble inlay work .
allahabad is also known for its annual magh mela ( mini kumbh mela ) and colorful dussehra festival .
in taj mahal trees were planted carefully in accordance with the symmetry of the overall plan .
it is this size impression that made the statue so wonderful .
allow for time to enjoy the panoramic and magnificent sites of the awesome mountains , rivers , flora and fauna .
rainwear is a must if you are visiting between june and september .
imphal is connected by a network of roads with all the important cities of north eastern india .
these were tens of life-size as well as under and over life-size free-standing statues of people , lions , horses , and other animals .
opposite the bank of england , it is the official home of the lord mayor of london .
sangam offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset .
ahmedabad is also connected by national and state highways to major cities in india .
he made elaborate studies on architecture that had to be applied for the new palace by visiting delhi , madras and calcutta and made plans for the new palace .
the best train journey is the one from chennais egmore ; the quilon mail winds its way beautifully across the western ghats .
a bus or car ride from bangalore would take approximately 3 hours for mysore .
the arcade leads to the naubat khana or the drum house where the musicians used to play drums on the arrival of emperors or princes .
prayag is one of the historic & mythological cities of india with glorious past and present .
this includes scaling , skiing , and trekking , through a landscape teeming with exotic flora and fauna , lakes and meadows , full of fresh snow .
the state bank of india will change your money and encash travelers cheques .
srirangapatna s fort bears witness to the tiger of mysore 's last battle against the british .
sansad bhawan or the parliament house is the supreme law making body in the country .
he was a great conqueror who extended the boundaries of the state in all directions .
you may also visit the tomb of the famous singer tansen 's tomb , tansen was considered to be one of the nine jewels of the mughal emperor akbar 's court .
with their slant mongol eyes , prominent cheek bones and cheerful smiles , the people of the lahaul give visitors an enthusiastic welcome .
bangla sahib gurudwara - a magnificent and spacious bungalow in delhi owned by raja jai singh amber ( jaipur ) who commanded great respect and honor in the court of mughal emperor aurangzeb now enjoys the status of a holy shrine called gurdwara bangla sahib .
no yellow topped taxis run in ahmedabad , only private tourist taxis or the auto rickshaws whose fare has to be negotiated before boarding .
the next stop is mattan temple , a small lingam ( shiva symbol ) stands in the sparkling spring. also visit achbal gardens .
at the periyar sanctuary you can find reptiles like king cobra , viper , krait , a number of non-pisonous snakes , biocoloured frogs , tortoise and crocodiles .
the igua falls are located in the igua national park , at the border of brazil and argentina .
keoladeo ghana bird sanctuary in bharatpur - one of the most spectacular water birds sanctuary features nesting indigenous water - birds as well as migratory water birds and water side birds .
with the spurt in tea prices in the world market in the 80 's , tea has usurped the place of potato .
grishneshwar mandir , rani ahilyabai holkar is said to have built this shiva temple in the 18th century in small village of grishneshwar , which lies west of the caves .
this shopping arcade was known as the mina bazzar and was open only to women on thursday 's during the mughal era .
aurangabad , the closest railhead , is directly connected to mumbai , delhi , agra , and bhopal .
a number of these ancient buildings still exist , quite a few of these ancient structures are still there in all there glory and a few others are in complete ruins .
india offers some unique destinations that are best reached in jeeps .
similarly , the clock tower that houses big ben , the giant 13.5ton bell that strikes the hour , is simply called ' the clock tower ' ! the public galleries are open when the houses are sitting .
there is a tourist lodge on the lake that provides basic accommodation and has a decent restaurant .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , incorporates all the needed information about tour packages to idukki with its facilities of on - line booking at the command of the wiling traveler .
from ajmer the nearest airport is jaipur which is 135kms away .
dtc operates an extensive network of city bus service covering all areas of the city and suburbs ; the city also operates pollution-free battery operated buses between connaught place and chandni chowk and along chandni chowk .
but if nothing else it has served to place the spotlight on what is undoubtedly a place for the future .
the work was executed by mcpherson in a period of 2 years starting 1821 .
gaumukh temple is dedicated to lord rama , this small temple is situated 4 kms south of mount abu , and derived its name from a natural spring flowing through the mouth of a marble cow .
the palace regales the historically inclined tourist to its royal rooms and suits , its log huts and bamboo cottages .
in an attempt to turn the area into an art district , city conservationists organized the kalaghoda fair , an open air craft bazaar , and cultural arena .
the amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces , halls , stairways , pillared pavilions , gardens & temples .
this small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic .
there is sport varied and excellent ; there is scenery for the artist and the layman , mountain for the mountaineer , flower for the botanist , a vast field for the geologist and magnificent ruins for the archaeologist .
the history of karkota dynasty after jayaditya is a sad story of decline .
the coastal climate of maharastra makes traveling pleasant all round the year .
kashmir was the most flourishing centre of buddhist learning in this period .
a four storeyed building made after the independence of the country , the vidhana sabha houses the state legislative assembly and part of the secretariat .
it clearly reveals intimate cultural contact between the valley , and plains of india in the 10th century .
a few pieces of sculpture include an image of brahma ( 12th century .
adjoining tipu 's summer palace is the venkataramanaswamy temple , a 300-year old temple built by the wodeyars and still in very good condition .
pahalgam is 98 kms from srinagar and enroute one can visit the impressive ruin of stone temple of martund built by king avanti varman between ad 855 and 933 and dedicated to vishnu , one of the gods of the hindu trinity .
most of the sleepy towns you encounter on these stretches only have ' eateries ' or communal dining rooms , as opposed to restaurants .
sam sand dunes is a perfect tourist destination known for the sunset and sunrise point .
ancient accounts such as those by strabo and pliny the elder give us a brief description of the ` ` tower ` ` and the magnificent white marble cover .
in a city of gardens that bangalore is , the cubbon is a premier attraction for all those who seek some respite from the busy metropolitan life here .
the national gallery is housed in the building that was formerly sir cowasji jehangir public hall .
a century ago in dickens ' day , the hall was a more focal point .
40 kms away from mysore is the somnathpur temple , a star-shaped structure built in 1260 a.d , an outstanding example of hoysala architecture .
today , ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the hindus as well as muslims .
new activities are constantly emerging and the industry is becoming more and more sophisticated .
the wall served well. only when a dynasty had weakened from within were invaders from the north able to advance and conquer .
animal life of the order of deer , giant , and malabar squirrel abound in plenty in this scenic hill station in india.a tour to idukki would reveal the selfsame .
sultanpur is essentially a bird watching place and one of the best things about it is that there are n't many trees to obscure the visitor 's view of the lake , which is often called a jheel locally .
the best way to explore periyar is by boat , you also have the option of spending time atop watchtowers .
the letter of the inscription around archways at the taj mahal , are generally supposed to become larger and larger above .
chandigarh is connected by good motor able roads with amritsar 240 kms , dehradun 230 kms , delhi 248 kms , shimla 117 kms , kulu 279 kms , bhakra 116 kms , kasauli 77 kms , and jammu 380 kms .
the new year is celebrated more enthusiastically in bangalore than any other festival .
jacanas with their iridescent colors and elegant tail feathers and purple moorhen can be seen delicately treading over the floating vegetation .
mayfair is also home to some of the world 's grandest and most prestigious hotels including the ritz , brown 's , the dorchester , the grosvenor house and the delightfully grand claridge 's n if you ' re unable to afford to stay in one of these opulent places , then at least experience afternoon tea in one n but do ensure you wear a jacket and tie .
the special feature of these gateways is the fact that the carvings on these depict events from the life of the buddhist saint lord buddha and anecdotes related to the spread of buddhism .
shree shree govindajee temple is a great historic centre and is a simple and beautiful structure with gold domes and a large raised congregation hall .
gradually this demographic shift was to change the character of the city altogether .
the holy sangam is the site for annual magha mela / ardh kumbh / kumbh mela .
the diwan-i-am or the hall of audience is a pillared hall whose centerpiece is the throne alcove ; this marble structure was inlaid with precious stones in floral motifs , and was built to house the peacock throne .
the emperor sat in the centre and discussions and debate were held here .
the mughal rulers erected several works of art as an admiration of this land .
this central courtyard also enshrines the deity of the royal family .
this hill station in india is home to the pallyvasal hydel project and add to this meager qualification as a center of natural beauty , it has a liberal smattering of tea plantations , which a tour to chithirapuram would reveal .
the nahargarh or tiger fort 15 kms to the north-west of the city provides a breathtaking view of the city .
an entire township now known as taj ganj came up around the site .
transit passengers who have a follow-on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
the time of the year when nature dawns all its colorful splendor and agra bursts into colorful celebrations .
dharamshala is famous as the abode of the dalai lama and is called as the ` ` little lhasa ' because of the large number of tibetan population .
other immigrants were americans , europeans ( portuguese , british and dutch ) and chinese .
the 12th century temple church is well worth a look as is the fascinating and under visited sir john soane 's museum in lincoln 's inn with its eccentric collections of paraphernalia .
construction of the dam began in 1960 as a national project , undertaken by egyptian president nasser who nationalized the suez canal to provide funds for the project .
it is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer , receive favors and feel amply gratified .
more important , however , delhi blends within its folds the great cultural variety of india ; an unceasing range of activity , a million ways of saying you are welcome .
the monument itself stands on a raised platform with four minarets in the corners .
visitors are allowed to see the ashokan pillar and saraswati kup , a well , said to be the source of the saraswati river and jodhabai palace .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
to get there is easy thanks to the docklands light railway , six stops south from canary wharf .
udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty , one of the famous city of rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts .
those who do will find statues honoring a number of past british prime ministers .
for the white water rafting enthusiast , the early stages of the ganga offer the exhilarating alakananda and bhagirathi rivers .
today , the reservoir known as lake nasser spans approximately 500 kilometers across the egyptio-sudanese border .
virtually all phases of indian history have left their mark on madhya pradesh , historically known as malwa .
in 1661 , charles ii of england received the islands of bombay as dowry when he married princess catherine of braganza .
the most exotic mansions or havelis , all intricately latticed , are stretched all over jaisalmer , each with a different facade .
a fire in 1834 destroyed all but westminster hall and the jewel tower across the road , so the rest of the present building is surprisingly new , having been built in the period 1840-1860 to a mock-gothic design .
the people named the valley as kashyap-mar and kashyap-pura. .
prince karamasi originally built the fort as a protection of the village from foreign or neighboring invasions .
it is the oldest , yet it is the only surviving of the seven ancient wonders .
agra is situated in the state of utter pradesh , india .
the historic purana qila , which has stood witness to delhi 's rejuvenation , periods of anarchy , and the rise & fall of empires , brings alive history of the capital .
bara shingri glaciers is the largest in himachal pradesh ; it falls in the chandra valley of lahaul and feeding the river chenab .
just look up the dictionary for the french , italian , or spanish word for lighthouse .
himachal tourism development corporation has constructed a glass house for residential purpose in solan .
rose garden situated in the heart of ooty town , this garden has been beautifully laid out in terraces with rose tunnels , pergolas and bowers with rose .
the final chapter came when in ad 401 the temple of artemis was torn down by st john chrysostom .
when it expired in 1980 , the city of paris took more direct control of the tower , through the means of a mixed capital company called snte ( soci t nouvelle d ' exploitation de la tour eiffel .
literally kullu is the valley of hundred temples and a thousand derties , it offers peace , a mysterious , spiritual peace .
in the early fifteenth century , the knights of st john of malta invaded the region and built a massive crusader castle .
one can imagine the crowd ! so far away from the maddening crowd , that too free vista for viewing the taj is on the sandy bank of the river yamuna at the mehtab bagh gardens .
yet what has endured in the midst of such ever-changing , violent proceedings is a calm and beautiful landscape that has much to offer , from nature ( much is covered by the amazon basin ; large lakes are surrounded by mountains ; a caribbean coastline twinkles with azure water ) to man-made wonders ( archaeological digs unearth historical wealth ; colonial houses adorn the towns ; the guajira peninsula is home to more than 100 , 000 nomadic indians .
the colorful dresses of the kinnauri women and their sweet folk songs make the valley all the more bright and cheerful .
only that idukki as a hill station in india is in a genre apart from the rest of the places will become evident to the tourist in a tour to idukki .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
both lalitaditya , and jayaditya were great patrons of learning and extended their patronage to bhavabhuti , vakpatrija , udhata bhata , damodhar gupta , manoratha , sankhdanta and samadhimat etc .
high court , an attractive building built in 1878 in the early english gothic style .
this beautiful park at port blair has facilities like amusement rides , safe water sports , and nature trail around the lake , garden restaurant and historic remains like japanese temple as well as a bunker .
in 1845 queen victoria asked for the palace to be extended to make more room for her growing family of four children .
credit cards are accepted in the larger hotels ; restaurants and commercial establishments in the cities but only cash will do in the smaller towns of the state .
shakespeare , hogarth , lenin and pepys have all had associations with clerkenwell and some of the old trades such as printing and clock making still survive .
the fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders akbar and later jehangir and shahjahan .
it is not known whether the burning of the city was accidental or an act of revenge for the destruction of temples in athens in 480 bc by the persians .
darjeeling and sikkim also have some trekking routes .
areas of london still bear the names of the gates in the wall , the main ones being aldgate , cripplegate , bishopsgate , newgate and ludgate .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska which have gentler rocks .
for local food , try the simple stalls in bara bazaar or the dhabas in zodin square .
route navigation in the desert is an acquired art , and caravans must be manned by riders who not only know how to study the stars , but also recognize the shifting sands of the terrain .
about one percent of the population of kerala and tamilnadu are tribal , where as about six percent in andhra pradesh and karnataka are members of tribes .
mysore , or mahishur as it was called in the past , traces its history back to the mythical past , when goddess chamundeshwari of chamundi hills killed the wicked buffalo-headed demon , mahishasura .
a short distance away from the city looms one of the most magnificent fortresses in india , the golconda fort .
agra , situated about 200 km south of new delhi , was the capital of the mughals ( moguls ) , the muslim emperors who ruled northern india between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries .
situated between 90-96 degree east longitude and 24-28 degree north latitude , assam is bordered in the north and east by the kingdom of bhutan and arunachal hills .
near the gardens of taj mahal stands the mughal monument known as red fort of agra .
on the beach are statues of india 's freedom fighters , lokmanya tilak and vallabh bhai patel who symbolize the freedom struggle .
the banqueting house is the only remaining complete building of whitehall palace , the sovereign 's principal residence from 1530 until 1698 when it was destroyed by fire .
now the list of organized , commercial activities has expanded dramatically .
let us see the other palaces that make mysore ` ` palace city .
a historic building now turned hotel a modern day hotel .
chennai has many temples and each one of them is worth a visit .
india was among the countries which had railway lines since 19th century .
the first race to enter himachal pradesh was proto-australoid followed by mongoloid and the aryan .
on the seine side of the construction , the builders used watertight metal caissons and injected compressed air , so that they were able to work below the level of the water .
$ 40 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
delhi is a bustling capital city and a business centre with all the trapping of modern metropolis but yet flavored strongly with an age old charm that never fails to surprise a traveler .
around & about by air flights from calcutta , silchar and guwahati connect aizawl six days a week .
set amidst the hills , the small and clean exquisite town of palampur is bejeweled with lush green terraced fields , the majestic deodar trees , beautiful tea gardens , pine forests , the snow clad and breath taking dhauladhar range with its imposing sky high peaks .
bharatpur is conveniently located on the agra - jaipur highway , only 56 kms from agra and approx. 175 kms from delhi .
renting cars through travel agents or from your hotel is really quite the most convenient way to get around .
the original american elevators by otis in the north and south piers took visitors up to the second floor in a double-decker cabin , using hydraulically powered cables .
he devoted the last thirty years of his life to his experimental research .
for taj mahal red sandstone was brought from fatehpur sikri , jasper from punjab , jade and crystal from china , turquoise from tibet , lapis lazuli and sapphire from sri lanka , coal and cornelian from arabia and diamonds from panna .
it is well known for its medieval temples and chaugan , a public promenade .
for those who find that they simply can not get enough of the temples and its grandiose display of temple art forms , here is a good place to continue being impressed .
this little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world .
a stroll down the tea plantations is what we all yearn for after all they are a perfect visual feast ever so immaculately captured by the magicians of bollywood .
the sunrise at konark beach is a feast for the eyes and an ideal spot for sun-bathing. .
public buildings and churches in european style can be found in many other towns such as visakhapatnam , vijayawada , vizianagaram , machilipatnam and even tirupati .
ruling from their capital city , tenochtitlan , the zatecs demanded heavy tribute from their subjects , which caused some to side with cortes .
the 300-acre park was laid in 1864 by lord cubbon .
it was napoleon 's engineers who , around 1800 ad , revived the idea of a shorter trade route to india via a suez canal .
attempts were recently made to rebuild the temple , but only a few columns have been re-erected. .
the metro cities mumbai ( 545 km ) , delhi ( 915 km ) , calcutta , chennai and other major cities are linked by a number of super fast , express and mail trains .
the east india company developed chennai as one of the major trading centers in india .
thus lalitaditya must be regarded as the founder not only of shortlived empire , but also of six centuries of kashmir hindu art .
there are few appropriate superlatives that have not already been applied to this magnificent natural wonder of the world ; in many ways it defies description .
the diwan-i-khas , where the emperor held audience with visiting dignitaries , was built in 1635 .
babur s son , the emperor akbar , who was a great empire builder commissioned the agra fort in 1565 and the city grew around the nucleus of the fort .
during summer festival boat races , boat pageantry , dog show etc . , add more festivity to the celebration .
20 km. near belur math on the other ( calcutta ) side of the hooghly ( ganga ) river , dakshineswar kali temple is famous for its association - with ramkrishna who achieved spiritual vision here .
the kala ghoda area is home to some of the city 's most beautiful buildings - the elphinstone college , the david sassoon library , the army navy building and the once-celebrated watson hotel .
the temples of khajuraho are brilliant example of medieval indian architecture .
kottayam is an ancient town famous for its churches , especially the 700 years-old churches , the cheria palli ( ` small church ` ) with exceptionally lovely paintings over the altar and the valia palli ( ` big church ` ) perched on a picturesque hillock over a small cluster of houses .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight and celebrate the buddhist heritage of andhra pradesh .
the camel fair at pushkar can be another added attraction if the travelers want to witness a camel dance in all its elegant glory .
the city dominated by the massive mehrangarh fort on a rocky hill is charming with its wealth of historic attractions and colorful markets which specializes in antiques .
handsome georgian and victorian houses provide homes for super wealthy aristocrats , film stars and musicians while some even act as embassies and consulates .
situated in maharashtra , aurangabad today is a thriving industrial metropolis and apart from being the jump-off point for maharashtra 's most celebrated tourist attraction , it also merits as one of the cleanest cities in the country .
when the backwaters of the arabian sea and the streams descending from the ghats caused the separation of this village from the mainland and landlocked the harbors , cochin become one of the safest ports on india s southwestern coast .
there is a bandstand , where bands play throughout the summer months .
relying on spotlights on the outer tower , the most celebrated monument in paris beamed scarlet red colors for the occasion of the chinese new year on saturday , january 24 , 2004 .
kangra is a little town located just 17 km away from dharamshala , in one of the prettiest valleys of himachal with its lush green terraces and orchards , overlooking a gushing stream the banganga .
pronounced ' hoe bern ' , this area is home to the distinctive inns of court : historic and beautiful sets of buildings where barristers have resided since the 13th century .
at the top stage , the mirror reflected sunlight during the day while fire was used during the night .
when the mirror was brought down mistakenly , they did not restore it back into place .
it soon became a meeting place for contemporary writers such as yeats and george bernard shaw .
mahatma gandhi 's residence in bombay between 1917-34 has been converted into a museum mani bhavan ( gandhi memorial ) , which displays pictures and books related to his life .
located on a strategic point in the heartland of india allahabad was also of great importance for the mughal rulers and later the british .
even elsewhere in the city , one can not fail to notice the dominant british influences in the form of old cathedrals , buildings in the indo-saracenic style of architecture , wide tree lined avenues .
fulham broadway has become something of a haunt for people wanting a lively night out .
the st sebastian 's church here is an important christian pilgrim centre .
aerial photos show that in sections , only the top battlements show - - the center of the wall has filled with sand and silt .
` ` pietra dura ` ` the inlay works on marble so characteristic of the taj was first used .
a lovely natural harbor and winding creek set off the city of mumbai from the long , narrow coast of western india .
when such a gandharva vivaha would be regularized then , ` ` meala ` ` or a healthy drink would be made compulsory for the wedding couple for a stipulated period to make them teem with virility and vitality , the hallmarks of wedded life .
visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks .
these churches are resplendent in their classical elegance and fine internal furnishings .
built in 1680 by shivaji , the fort is now crumbling all that remains are the ramparts and a moss encrusted step well .
visit the ancient palaces of mewar dating back to the 6th century ad ; the sas bahu temples are among the most exquisitely carved temples .
until the completion of the main palace auditorium in 1912 all the annual day and dashara festival celebration were taking place here .
he garrisoned armies at the wall to stand guard over the workers as well as to defend the northern boundaries .
moreover , the fallen colossus would have blocked the harbor entrance .
lime street , london , built in 1986 this most futuristic building is the headquarters for lloyd 's insurance .
then of course , there is a range of the conventional sporting activities , which can be viewed at various stadiums .
ajanta unfinished caves are unfinished monasteries of the second phase of excavation .
inside are remains of brick houses , paved roads , tanks , a drainage system and a large 5th century bc stupa .
the white marbled moti masjid or the pearl mosque was the private mosque for aurangzeb .
nagaland comprises the former naga hills districts of assam and the former tuensang frontier divisions.languages coomonly spoken here are english , angami , ao , chang , konyak , lotha , sangtam etc .
rose garden was set up in the year 1995 to commemorate the 100th flower show of the botanical garden .
completed in 1613 a.d. by his son jahangir , sikandra fort is one of the well preserved monuments .
the word konark is derived from two word elements - kona means corner and ark meaning the sun .
arunachal pradesh is surrounded by bhutan on the west , china on the north - east , myanmar on the east and by the indian state of assam on the southern side .
science city has space theatre .
arriving in darjeeling can be fun as a ride on the ` ` toy train ` ` on its run of 82 kms is through a markedly sylvan surrounding .
most outlets ( especially on the king 's road ) tend to be small , with smart fashionable bars and restaurants jostling for space in between .
lalitaditya was equally a great builder and he built his capital near the sacred shrine of khir-bhawani , and gave it the name of parihaspur ( city of pleasure .
the 12th century sachiya mata temple has a large assembly hall with an elaborately carved ceiling and exquisitely sculptured figures of several gods .
the highest grade climbed is curreltly 32 ; serious climbing starts aroung 10 , beginners normally do the early tens and then move upwards .
large sections of the wall can be seen close to the museum of london and near tower hill station next to the tower of london .
the white marble came from makrana in rajasthan and the red sandstone from fatehpur sikri .
conering an area of 12 sq km , this fort fell only once to the army of akbar and that too because the water supply of the fort was contaminated by the enemy forces .
the marine life of corals and fish is rich and colorful and is a delight for snorkels .
their poor performance led to their removal .
the present jhunsi is a very close to sangam was the kingdom of chandrabanshiya ( lunar clan ) king pururava .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
5km away is ruantlang , a village where the traditional mizo way of life has been preserved .
dimapur is situated at an altitude of 195 meters above sea level it is an important commercial centre of nagaland and one can see here the last relics of the kachari kingdom .
allahabad s majestic fort has three magnificent galleries flanked by high towers .
this building has been used by the legal profession since the 14th century .
in jodhpur one can visit the meharangarh fort , situated on a low sandstone hill , including moti-mahal and phool mahal .
15 kms from mysore is the old capital of tipu sultan , srirangapatna .
the city really started growing into its present form after the rendition of 1881 when the throne was restored to chamarajendra wodeyar , the scion of the royal family , who ruled the state for 13 years till his death in 1894 .
chail is a very small hamlet and a hill station where you can discover nature at its best untouched by the pollution , deforestation and modern construction .
mainpat ( surguja ) , keshkal valley ( kanker ) , chaiturgarh ( bilaspur ) , bagicha ( jashpur ) , kutumbsar caves , kailash caves , tirathgarh falls , chitrakot falls ( bastar ) are all exhilarating destinations being promoted for nature and wildlife tourism .
with no parallel in the world , the minarets have been so designed that when one is shaken the other sways in sympathy .
bangalore was founded by kempe gowda in the early 16th century .
in a horseshoe form , 2 , 700 meters wide between the two countries , the igua falls fill the visitors 's view with the spray of 72 meter-high falls - the number of them varies between 150 and 300 , depending on the flow of the igua river .
in addition , paraguay boasts breathtaking waterfalls where the borders of brazil , paraguay , and argentina come together .
on the narrow platform at the top , eiffel received his decoration from the legion of honor .
declared a world heritage site by the unesco , the taj mahal has always evoked varying emotions from wonder to ecstasy and often times , inspired poetic verse .
standing as tall as the mountains , the bolivians ' pride for their homeland is always evident and always justified .
it is here that water sports and feni , the typical locally brewed wine flow add nauseaum and make the honeymooners in india feel one with the true spirit of goa .
kanak vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in jaipur .
the climate of the state is dominated by the himalayan system and the altitudinal variations .
french , british , russian , and other royalty were invited for the inauguration which coincided with the re-planning of cairo .
this is the statue of the god in whose honor the ancient olympic games were held. it was located on the land that gave its very name to the olympics .
the devastation was so much that a ban on fresh construction was belatedly imposed by the government .
his son aurangzeb , who was in constant conflict with local chieftains and neighboring principalities , added the outer ramparts .
the amber fort located at a distance of 11 kilometers from jaipur , rajasthan , india .
instead , the letters have been inscribed densely at the bottom , with little plain surface in between ; the inscription becomes more and more sparse as it rises with plainer surface in between the letters .
with the fall of vijayanagar empire in 1565 ad , the wodeyars inherited and perpetuated the traditions of vijayanagar empire .
dashavatar temple dedicated to lord vishnu is the earliest known panchyatan temple in north india .
the national maritime museum is home to the world 's largest maritime historical reference library , as well as a wealth of nautical exhibits and artifacts .
the area extends from oxford street in the north to piccadilly in the south and hyde park in the west to regent street in the east .
charming english country cottages were built around the nakki lake , and as time passed it became a british enclave - the official summer capital , where the chief commissioner for rajputana would move with his entourage for two months each year , from his administrative capital in ajmer .
the nearest airport to khimsar is at jodhpur , which is 80 km away ; there are daily flights from jodhpur to delhi , mumbai , udaipur and jaipur .
lal bag contains the largest collection of rare tropical and sub-tropical plants with many awesome century-old trees .
both the mongols ( yuan dynasty , 1271-1368 ) and the manchurians ( qing dynasty , 1644-1911 ) were able take power , not because of weakness in the wall but because of weakness in the government and the poverty of the people .
the rajputs , under the leadership of sansar chand owned this region in 1773 ad , till the attack by maharaja ranjit singh in 1804 ad , which crushed the rajput power here .
the villages of kumarakom are a cluster of little islands on the vembanad lake , and this small water world is part of the kuttanad region .
though the city has well equipped shops , branded cosmetics and toiletries may not be easily available but items like camera films etc are easily and widely available .
the javari temple dates back to ad 1075-1100 and are dedicated to vishnu.the vamana temple is slightly older than the javari temple , standing alone in the middle of a field .
though the march of brick and mortar has laid waste its thick sholas which one saw in a bygone era , it still woos people from all over india as well as foreign countries right through summer , and sometimes in the winter months too .
it left the country unaffected by the drought that hit africa during the late 1980 's , and , in the 1990 's , spared egypt several unexpectedly high floods .
the favorite for shoppers of all shapes , sexes and wallet sizes is textiles and ready-made garments , including export surplus apparel , which you can pick up at throwaway prices .
on the western wall of the compound is the museum there is a good collection of mughal miniature paintings - portraits of the mughal rulers , ancient coins and porcelain .
it was majjhantika , a celebrated buddhist missionary who was deputed to kashmir and urvasa to preach the faith of buddha in those territories .
on the way to kumbhalgarh lays the magnificent dam-the rajsamand lake .
tourists from all over the world come to see backwater .
the area that can be visited include imphal city , loktak lake , ina memorial ( moirang ) , sendra , keibul lamjao national park & khongjom war memorial .
his chief queen amrit prabha built ' amrit bhawan ' vihar for foreign pilgrims and students who came to kashmir in large numbers for learning .
mysore 's prime attractions are the mysore palace , the chamundi hills , the famous brindavan gardens , the jayachamarajendra art gallery located in the jaganmohan palace , the mysore zoo and st. philomena 's church .
the backwater cruises in kerala are definitely a mustdo .
nehru planetarium is within the compound of teen murti .
they being , marpas , sherdukpens , membas and khambas who live in the high mountains and are rumoured to have their origin in burma and thailand .
he married the hindu princess of jaipur , and her brother raja man singh became one of his trusted lieutenants .
they often provide good , reliable budget accommodation in a city renowned for its high prices .
the one to the left holds friday prayers even today .
a regular haunt of the writer graham greene , its back bar is reputed to be the smallest in england measuring just 4ft by 7ft .
after the end of his career in business , marred by the failure of the panama canal , eiffel began an active life of scientific experimental research in the fields of meteorology , radiotelegraphy and aerodynamics .
the ticket booth , situated across the road from the palace , opens at 09 : 45 .
though not as large as its compatriot in jaipur jantar mantar at delhi also an attraction for the tourists .
the junta lasted five years , before giving way to the civilian government of augusto leguia .
kumarakom , located on the southern coast of india enjoys a well balanced tropical climate .
the changing light of thte rising and setting sun gives varied hues of gold , russet and pink to the imposing arch .
77 km from shimla and 35 km from kalka , at 1 , 927 mts , is a quaint little town kasauli that seems to live in a time warp that belongs to the last century .
with trafalgar square behind you , you ' ll find the streets leading off the strand to the right lead to the thames while those on the left will take you towards covent garden .
the western ghats have mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
german born marx made london his permanent home in 1849 after he was expelled from prussia and france because of his radical views .
st stephen 's church - the oldest church in ooty .
the palace of the nawab and the janjira caves are also a must for the tourist .
the andamans have some fascinating underwater marine life , varieties of colorful fishes , shipwrecks and exotic coral reefs .
it has an impressive garden called the mughal gardens .
the robe of the prophet , which is considered an important relic lies here and revealed to the public once a year , on the 12th day of the islamic month of rabi-ul-awwal. .
though motor sport started with circuit racing in india , the fact today remains that racing has hardly progressed within the country .
agra - the first impression is of a chaotic , overcrowded , polluted mess that can offer nothing of interest .
the village atmosphere is further enhanced by the presence of a village pond and village green , both of which are overlooked by the centuries old sun inn .
at the site of the mausoleum itself , only the foundation remains of the once magnificent wonder .
these are legal societies with the power to call people to the bar .
kullu is the second portion of kangra , and the beas here flows amidst broad cultivated terraces , about 1 , 000 meters ( 3 , 281 ft ) above sea level .
the holy place sangam is the place where the three holy rivers ganga , yamuna , and the mythical saraswati merge into one .
$ 45 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
the fort built in the 13th century , served the kings as a stronghold , administrative centre and market place .
their account of their explorations , which were of a place that was cool and teeming with the game and wildfowl , stoked the interest of the boss .
rahul was the son of buddha and the name lahaul is derived from rahul .
madras , or chennai as it is now called , is known as the gataway of southern india .
the srinagar valley is known amongst the hill stations of india for its resplendent valleys , high and clear waterfalls and the frozen dal lake , which is the destination for all the honeymooners and tourists alike .
situated in the hills of the western ghats , the periyar region is a forest rich area inhabited by a large population of mammals .
every spring the stones of khajuraho come to life during the prestigious 7-day khajuraho dance festival when the glory of the temples is celebrated with true fervour and joy .
the three great acharyas of this school are vasugupta , kallatha and the great abhinavagupta. hundreds of other kashmiri philosophers , and thinkers wrote masterpieces on this philosophy in the subsequent periods of our history .
in the 18th century , an attempt to inject a measure of unification by the spanish was met with widespread resistance and uprisings led by sim n bol var ( after whom the currency is named .
the present lambeth bridge was constructed over three years between 1929 and 1932 , from concrete and steel .
minjar fair has been declared as one of the state fairs of himachal pradesh .
even once known , antarctica seemed inhospitable and incomprehensible and , in many ways , it still is .
the threshold of the lahaul plateau is nourished by chandra & bhaga rivers .
sarswati festival is celebrated throughout india but takes on special significance in kerala .
if you are ready for the crowds and noise , they can be a great money saver .
though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports , hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as pune , delhi , chandigarh , shimla , mumbai , devlali , banglore and kalaheti .
later , a new company was formed in 1894 , and the work was completed in 1899 .
among the finest examples of some of the earliest buddhist architecture , cave paintings and sculptures , these caves comprise chaitya halls , or shrines dedicated to lord buddha and viharas or monasteries used by buddhist monks for meditation and the study of buddhist teachings .
jeep safari with the outdoor element rolled into the thrill of the rides undertaken is tourism with a difference very much to be kept in a different plane then all the rest of the breeds of adventure tourism in india .
in winters , one can indulge in the winter sports like skiing and tobogganing .
several sites in india have been identified by expert hang gliders with those in the lower reaches of the himalayas rated as / among the best in the world .
chennai is a gracious city that has a clear skyline , longest sandy beaches , parks , historic landmarks and tourist infrastructure facilities which make it a convenient entry point or base to start a tour of tamil nadu and south india .
bombing in the second world war destroyed much of the church building ; although the brick tower survived and is today , the only piece of cromwellian church architecture you will find left standing in the capital .
andhra pradesh is the home of rich cultural heritage and handicrafts .
the ganga golden jubilee museum has a large collection of pottery , paintings , carpets , coins , and armory .
idukki can be rightfully termed as the hilly district of kerala and has emerged , as a prominent hill station in india with the foci of attention being on wildlife , as a thriving wildlife sanctuary agog with life , is located within its confines .
patiala was the capital of erstwhile princely state of patiala , with magnificent forts , palaces and gardens , the city is said to have been founded in 1756 by baba ala singh .
bombay now called as mumbai is the capital city of maharashtra .
they tell us how the mysterious mirror could reflect the light tens of kilometers away .
from an architectural standpoint , the monument has been used as a model for many prototypes along the mediterranean , as far away as spain .
spice garden and plantation estates surround the national park .
presidents house , this palace like buioding was build by the british with a blend of mughal and western culture .
this 29 sq km keoladeo ghana national park is also the breeding ground for the rare siberian crane .
the plinth of the main tomb of taj mahal is 2'10'' high on an average .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
the first time you travel to agra , the city can be a bit overwhelming with its noise and big crowds. there are government run and private tourist information centers galore and you should take advantage of them .
a long line of picturesque ghats - with their steps leading to the water 's edge , arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right bank of the river yamuna , emphasis the sacred character of the town of mathura .
naturally , in course of time , many people embraced buddhism here .
today , remains of the historical city are the gates like - kashmiri gate , ajmeri gate , turkman gate , delhi gate .
over there they were still working on the bolts : workmen with their iron bludgeons , perched on a ledge just a few centimeters wide , took turns at striking the bolts ( these in fact were the rivets .
the dome atop the palace adds to the beauty of the palace .
there is a museum inside the junagarh fort which has collections of valuable antique objects .
the shri satya sai baba ashram is the chief attraction at whitefield .
kuchipudi , the classical dance originating from the state has vigorous choreography and is somewhat akin to bharatanatyam .
woodland , ground and water-birds abound the park including the uncommon red jungle fowl and varieties of eagles .
the nabataeans carved their capital in the canyons and hills of sandstone of wadi araba in jordan. the entrance to the city is through the alley ( al-siq ) , a winding trail at the bottom of the canyon .
in early 1995 , full-scale fighting broke out after talks broke down , continuing intermittently until a settlement was reached in 1999 .
restaurants cater mainly to the local citizens and provide good , clean and tasty fare .
kullu manali as an ideal honeymoon destination in india is a place gifted with picture postcard beauty with the attendant wooded environment and the whispering streams to be savored by honeymooners in india .
the naga hills run through this small state nagaland , which has saramati as its highest peak at a height of 12 , 600 ft .
the dalai lama presented some beautiful tankhas .
delhi is the base for indian airlines operations in north india and the airline connects the city with all major centers of tourist and business interest in the country .
it also has a superb collection of cars , trains , planes , boats , and even working steam engines ! famous residents of kensington have included william makepeace thackeray ( author of vanity fair ) , robert baden-powell ( founder of the scout movement ) , bela bartok , sir winston churchill , t . s .
even the locals get lost , so allow plenty of time to navigate .
jodhpur , 80k.m. from khimsar , is the largest city in the entire marwar region .
the water supply for the city is from parson 's valley .
in the corner of the inner court of the dargah , is a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow court having low arcade and delicate carvings with trellis work .
mysore is also known as the city of palaces .
today , the great pyramid is enclosed , together with the other pyramids and the sphinx , in the touristy region of the giza plateau .
wedding ceremony of ` ` naalvadi krishnaraja wodeya ` ` and ` ` shri kantheerava narasimharaja wodeyar ` ` took place in this palace .
french guiana has the benefit of an ideal geographical situation , set between the caribbean and the amazon .
a daring dip in the salty arabian sea in the golden beaches of a gothic goa , india can be a memorable occasion for some of the starry eyed couples , out to solemnize their tryst with destiny .
travel a little outside agra and you ' ll come to fatehpur sikri , a site for monuments that are historically as important as the taj mahal .
first the pieces were assembled in the factory using bolts , later to be replaced one by one with thermally assembled rivets , which contracted during cooling thus ensuring a very tight fit .
according to mythology a young brahmin dived into the vembanad lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for the land to rose from below .
the main attraction of periyar national park is the periyar lake , formed by the construction of a dam on the periyar river in 1895 .
the tomb derives its name from the glazed tiles ( chini ) on its fa ade .
since then it has become a place of pilgrimage for both , hindus and sikhs .
one can explore the park by traveling around in tiny small boats and also climb up the watchtower located on the hillock of bebet ching .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
shimla , the summer capital of the british india , is situated at a height of 2 , 196 meters .
there is a wide variety of hotel accommodation available , and covers a wide range of budgets .
they took advantage of rebellion from within and stepped into the void of power without extended wars .
you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
the story of taj mahal is a love story not found in papers but stands in the structural form .
the brij has a number of shaivite temples as well. the chief among them being the bhuteshwar mahadev temple to the west of the town , the gokarneshwar temple in the north , the rangeshwar. mahadev temple to the south and the pipaleshwar mahadev temple to the east .
the main mountaineering locales are in the garhwal and kumoan regions of uttar pradesh .
on the hammersmith bank are a number of handsome regency houses interspersed with riverside pubs and boathouses .
this palace was built in 1842 and used as ` ` special school ` ` for young princes .
bharatpur , the ' gateway to eastern rajasthan ' acquires its own importance in the tourist map of india .
the major attractions of tourists visiting the park are the numerous migratory birds , which come from as far away as siberia and central asia and spend their winters in bharatpur , before returning to their breeding grounds .
the jains have also left an indelible mark on the indian architecture , which is visible in the exquisite sculpture sun temple at ancient palitana , ajanta , ellora , and mount abu .
a 3 , 500 km long and a towering 8 , 848 meter high divine legend garland india and the subcontinent .
it had its own chapel and many shops and houses too .
from the early period of its history , tribes like the koilis , halis , dagis , dhaugris , dasa , khasas , kinnars and kirats inhabited it .
on the river banks , recently discovered massive walls 25 m thick may have been stepped to form terraces . . . the ones described in greek references .
one of its first actions was to launch an ambitious program of restoration and renovation of the tower .
the andes mountain range crosses the country from north to south .
this was where the maharajas did all their secret wheeling and dealing with the chief commissioner - as it was much more discreet here than to visit him publicly at his administrative capital in ajmer .
the mystique of the desert beckons of the wild caressed sand dunes , where rise the three splendid cities of jodhpur , desert festival bikaner and jaisalmer-the ancient relics of glorious past .
the sufi saints are considered to be the greatest ambassadors of islam in pakistan and india .
an ideal picnic spot with enhancing landscape of wooded hills and beautiful chhatris on the embankment of the 10.5 sqkm placid lake .
a panoramic vie of bithoor can be enjoyed from valmiki ashram .
built around 1000 a.d. , the temples of khajuraho ( kha-ju-ra-ho ) are india 's immortal gift of sensual love to the world .
khwairamband bazaar also known as nupi keithel and ima bazaar or mothers market is a large covered market split into two sections on both sides of the khwairamband road and has tribal women clad in colorful , traditional attire selling everything from hand-woven shawls , skirts to fish , lotus , oranges and orange-flavored honey .
the birla mandir stands on a hill overlooking the south end of hussain sagar .
the town has rich growth of deodar and pine forests as well as tea gardens .
barring africa , there is perhaps no part of the world where such a variety of wildlife exists .
although it disappeared from existence , the ancient world wonder inspired modern artists such as french sculptor auguste bartholdi best known by his famous work .
once in 12 years , the mammoth ' kumbh mela ' festival is held in ujjain .
that agra is unparalleled as a travel destination is an established fact .
the place is untouched by the outside world of modernity .
this area is ideal for day hikes from aizawl .
it 's all there in bal bhavan - a bumper package of fun and entertainment .
156 square kms in area , the madhav national park of shivpuri is open throughout the year .
dense rain forests and canopies of luxuriant green branches host a variety of birds , insects , and all kind of life .
besides these ancient sites , about 45 kms from allahabad are popular picnic spots for local people .
the material for taj mahal was brought in from all over india and central asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site .
the state of maharashtra is one of the largest in india .
the construction in charge was taken by b. p. raghavulu naidu who was executive engineer in the mysore palace division .
the main astronomical instruments set up at this royal observatory are the jaiprakash yantra , ram yantra and the samrat yantra .
hotels in agartala offer basic amenities and few have air conditioned rooms .
brahma also referred the allahabad as ` tirth raj or the ` king of all pilgrimage centres .
a swimming pool has been built in a modern style and joining to this palace is the zoo garden .
other islands one can visit from port blair itself would be wandour beach , corbyn s cove , jolly buoy , and ross island .
according to hari thakur , the contest between jabalpur and chhattisgarh for the name mahakosala is settled beyond doubt in favor of chhattisgarh in the light of available evidence .
53km to the south of agartala is the water palace , built in 1930 in the middle of rudrasagar lake .
this includes the ceremony of the state opening of parliament .
a modern reconstruction of the shorter side of the mausoleum illustrates the lavish nature of the art and architecture of the building . . . a building for a king whose name is celebrated in all large tombs today - - mausoleums .
there is little choice as far as eating out is concerned .
jaswant thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
konark beach is 3 kms away from the temple along the puri road .
the two hour boat ride takes tourists on a relaxing sightseeing tour of interior parts of the calm and placid waters of dal lake , to see the market and the floating gardens .
the miniature paintings belong to the mughal , rajasthani and kangra schools of art while the sculptures are from the gandharva school of art .
the other factor on cortes side was the lucky coincidence that 1519 was the exact year when legend had it that the aztec god , quetzalcoatl , would return from the east and so cortes was mistaken for a god .
this permit is valid for port blair municipal area ; havelock islands ; long ; neil islands ; mayabunder , diglipur , rangat for a period of one month where night halt is permitted .
it comes administratively under papumpare district .
itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical ita fort , and other tourist attractions here would be gyaker sinyi or the ganga lake .
the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors , its fine terraced lawns and swirling fountains are illuminated over the weekend to give it a fairy tale quality .
situated in western rajasthan , jodhpur has long attracted both the domestic and outside tourist .
it was during the time of third emperor akbar that agra came into its own .
the centre of the southern side is occupied by a vestibule. which has been ornamented very profusely with exquisite carvings , artistic paintings & inlay work in geometric and floral designs .
this creed became very popular in china , japan , tibet and ladakh. nagarjuna has been raised to the exalted position of buddistava and enjoys the reputation of being the greatest thinker of the age .
nature has composed its magic to perfection at kumarkom .
corbett national park is rightfully named after the man who was instrumental in its creation .
if you re fired by the sprit of adventure , let the sparks in your heart fly in india , a land blessed with lofty snow clad peaks , crystal glaciers , rolling meadows , jagged rock faces , verdant valleys , meandering rivers , cascading waterfalls , dense forests , and hospitable people , blessed with a rich culture a land perfect for mountaineering , trekking , and rock climbing .
the entry of all outsiders , except the hindus , was banned in the state then .
though devotees visit these temples through the year , during the navratras devotees come from near and far , during the festivals there are special bus services to these temples .
the sabarmati neatly bifurcates the city into two the old quarter on the eastern side with the business and industrial centre and the new city with more contemporary landscape of malls and arcades , high-rise buildings and cinema houses .
one of the finest examples of ashokan pillars , gupta temple , 5th century a.d. temple is one of the earliest known examples of temple architecture in india .
traveling in the opposite direction from piccadilly circus is shaftesbury avenue with its many famous theatres .
the economic ruin was hastened by the extravagant habits of both the rulers and the ministers .
arbuda , the hill serpent descended from the hills to act as a savior for lord shiva 's bull , nandi .
in garhwal region the sacred river ganga offers the professional as well as the amateur the exhilaration of white water rafting .
across india makar sankranti is celebrated as a harvest festival , but this is the day of kites at jaipur and jaipurites are famous for their expertise in kite flying .
hotels have restaurants attached to them and primarily serve indian food .
women wear a multihued wrap around skirt for a moment you may wonder if you are in a south american city ! for detailed state information click on .
it is india where polo the game of kings was rediscovered and nurtured since the medieval times .
although we do not know the true shape and appearance of the colossus , modern reconstructions with the statue standing upright are more accurate than older drawings .
this fort has a special historical significance as it was from this particular fortress that the rani of jhansi and tantiya tope fought for the indian independence .
bhubaneshwar ( bhuban being world and iswar god ) once the ancient capital of the kalinga empire and now the capital of orissa is a town of temples and tanks with a rich history .
there is also a tea and tourism festival in ooty in january .
the houseboats may look rugged on the outside but inside they have a quaint rustic softness .
before we have a look at the mosque , let us take note of a small stone enclosure along the western boundary wall where the well of the mosque is located .
the golden temple is located in the holy city of the sikhs , amritsar , once and the dense forest home of guru nanak .
kufri is known for trekking and hiking trails .
the ride up to the mount from the foothill town of abu - road serves as an apt reminder of the fact that one is fast approaching a charming hill station in india , almost an oasis amidst the desert .
the nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn , attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty .
india attained its freedom in 1947 and now it is a world s largest democratic country. india has about 26 states and 7 union territories .
christopher 's place just opposite bond street station has an almost invisible entrance and leads to an entirely different world of up-market boutiques , intimate restaurants and charming specialist shops .
it is in fact an enigma of mud huts & sky - scrapers , age old traditions & high fashions , the industrialists ' heaven & movie makers ' hollywood .
the asiatic society started a public museum in 1814 .
the structure is one of the best examples of mughal architecture .
and yet , this unashamedly capitalist crucible hides another side .
the area covering regent 's park was formerly a church property called manor of tyburn .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world .
delhi also bears the marks of the freedom struggle .
this casuarina-fringed beach is a famous picnic spot too ; one can watch the shy baliharina deer here and the sea turtle research centre is another attraction of this beach .
in earlier times , jaisalmer 's strategic position on the camel train route brought it great wealth .
44kms from konark is pipli , a centre for appliqu work , which depict the essence of oriya culture .
maharaja sawai pratap singh of jaipur , rajasthan , built the hawa mahal in the year 1799 .
the construction of taj mahal was started in ad 1632 and completed at the end of 1648 ad .
mumbai is india s international gateway .
permanent galleries include medieval bengali and indian miniature paintings , textiles and excellent specimens of old hand woven daccai and baluchari saris .
the population of brazil is a big melting pot of races , including indigenous people , descendants of slaves from africa and the offspring of european immigrants .
the ruins of those periods can still be seen on the bellary road , at lal bagh , ulsoor and gavi gangadhareswar temple .
the cause for wonder about this nandi is that it has been carved from a single boulder .
paddington provides good value accommodation and easy access to all of london 's main attractions , not least of which is hyde park , just five minutes away by foot .
court number one is the most interesting , with its original furniture and dock leading to the detaining cells below .
a beautiful little hill resort , dharamshala is 90 kms from pathankot , lying on the other side of chamba .
beyond the palace lie the delightful kensington gardens - the perfect setting for a picnic .
bangalore , capital of karnataka , is called the garden city for its delicate blossoms and greenery that impart a unique beauty to this lovely city .
amongst the finest examples of buddhist art , sanchi is the one .
cochin is also famous for export of fisheries , spices , coconuts , cardamoms , tea , and rubber .
vasco da gama was buried at st. francis church before his remains were taken back to portugal 14 years later .
the new hard line adopted by the government was confirmed in may 2002 , when the right-winger alvaro uribe , who favours all-out war against the left-wing guerrillas , won a comfortable victory at the presidential election .
a land of steep hills and deep gorges , mizoram 's highest peak ' the blue mountain ' rises to a height of 2165 meters .
war cemetries are managed by the commonwealth war graves commission , commemorating the memories of the british and indian soldiers , who died during the second world war .
port blair is connected to calcutta and chennai by alliance air .
the water channels crisscrossing the garden used to be full of colorful fish of various species .
the rani sipri masjid is a small , exquisitely designed mosque , while the rani rupmati mosque named after the sultans hindu wife , has a dome that is slightly raised to permit light to come in around its base .
when daniel defoe visited westminster hall during his tour of 1724 , he said it resembled a barn .
the 12 - spired temple with its enormous courtyard is surrounded by 12 other temples dedicated to lord shiva .
fort is open to the public from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. .
kasol , on the parvati river , is an angler 's paradise .
there 's a prehistoric animal section , a toy train ride around the park , a lion safari and a nocturnal section .
the interior of this chaitya hall is decorated with carved buddha figures .
the main entrance to the dargah , the nizam gate is of 70 feet height , it was constructed by the nizam of hyderabad .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
hyderabad is one such place where is so much to awe the senses , from the magnificent food to the majestic monuments , from its terrific landscapes to a populace steeped in respect and tradition .
some of them are mysore palace , jaganmohan palace , jayalakshmi vilasa , lalitha mahal etc .
these are the elected house of commons and the house of lords , made up of hereditary and life peers .
the city of mathura , in uttar pradesh , the nucleus of brajbhoomi , is located at a distance of 145 km south - east of delhi and 58 km north-west of agra .
tidal waves resulted in the destruction of more than 150 villages , and were felt in france and england .
feast your eyes on the beauty of nature and tribal lives of simple rural folk .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
the royal city bikaner has a timeless charm like no other .
sunder nagar is famous for its temples , 26 k.m. from mandi towards shimla and at a height of 1 , 174 meters on the raised edge of a fertile valley .
apart from the mesmerizing dances , songs of dadra , pandwani , karma , panthi and suva , the region has national parks / sanctuaries and has places of archaeological and religious importance such as sirpur , rajim , malhar , sita bengra , jogibhatta , deepadih , dantewada and dongargarh where tourists come automatically .
the nearest railhead is in ratlam ( madhya pradesh ) which is 80km from kumbhalgarh and is connected with all the major cities of the country .
presently , motor sport includes activities like autocross , motocross , drag racing , motor gymkhana , treasure hunts and precise family rallies .
indoor climbing gyms help in developing many skills in outdoor climbing especially rock climbing .
he introduced new fashions in dress and ornaments .
it is understood that goddess cauvery graces this hill station in india , coorg for a revenues with her kith and kin .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska , which have gentler rocks .
it was at this ashram that gandhiji began his salt satyagraha .
the festival features performances of music and dance , both classical and folk , flower shows , events for children , exhibitions by local artists , photographers and craftsman and a wide range of other activities .
bikaner was founded by rao bika , second son of the founder of jodhpur .
also to be found here is the theatre museum packed full of theatrical memorabilia from the last 300 years .
among the charms of dalhousie are the throngs of tibetans , still in traditional garb , and the lovely picnic spots , pre-eminent among which is the plain of khajjiar .
kottayam links you to all major cities in kerals and india with numerous trains plying this route daily .
the desert national park is a vast stretch of protected bio-sphere reserve with an area of over 3000 square kms .
meghalaya or ' abode of the clouds is a source of inspiration to any poet , a dramatic canvas for an artist 's dream , and the ideal retreat for people in search of beauty and solitude .
uppada , a beach town located 20 kms from kakinada is famous for beautifully designed cotton sarees .
there are no rules banning non-hindus from the temple and allowed to join the queue for a glimpse of the deity .
chamba is ancient capital of pahari kings situated on the bank of river ravi at an altitude of 996 meters .
sir christopher wren designed this house , which overlooks st james 's park , in the early 18th century , as the london home of the duke of marlborough and his wife , sarah .
always a tourist favorite , the city cochin offers visitors plenty .
this is kumarakom , one of the worlds most talked about destinations .
the base is carved with floral motifs , of roses , tulips , and narcissi .
ladakh and leh nestled in the foothills of himalayas form the favorite hunting grounds for riders participating in jeep safaris in india. monastery special , sareolsar lake , apple belt safari , temple safari and the lake special safaris in the upper reaches of himalayas are a few of the favorite treks followed by some of the corporate sponsored safaris in india .
hamley 's , the world 's largest toy shop is here on the right as is the startling liberty department store which continues to promote the designs of the arts and crafts movement .
about 200 km from shimla is the strikingly beautiful district of kinnaur where the the river satluj carved deep gorges through the high mountains.tibet road which passes through the kinnaur valley .
the capsule in which rakesh sharma went into space is also kept here .
earlier , the statue had been transported by wealthy greeks to a palace in constantinople .
it was during the ming dynasty ( 1368-1644 ) that the wall took on its present form .
its honesty and plainness of appearance intensified the artistic debate that had been opened thirty years earlier , giving form to the division between architects and engineers , between art and science , and embodying a new type of expression through structure and space .
north of the crawford market is a predominantly muslim area , dotted with chawls ( dwelling clusters ) , and home to some of the busiest and most colorful bazaars in mumbai .
in the time of king yasakara ( 939-48 ) a ' math ' ( hospice ) was built for the students of india , who came to kashmir for study and meditation .
dancers gyrate , the music beats and the summer temperature rises .
this 19th century building boasts of a unique natural air-conditioning system and the displays include exquisite bronzes , ancient ornament and costumes , ivory carvings and musical instruments , and a whole temple chariot .
agra was established in 1475 by badal singh and came into its own when sikandar lodhi of the lodhi dynasty chose it for his capital because of its proximity to the yamuna .
the glorious burlington arcade which runs from piccadilly to burlington gardens was built in 1819 and is patrolled by top-hatted beadles who enforce the rules of ' no singing , whistling or hurrying ' ! if you turn right at the burlington gardens end of the arcade , you ' ll find savile row , world famous for its fine bespoke tailoring .
pre-paid taxi ( a service with journey fare paid at the booking counter ) , air-conditioned and non-airconditioned coach counters are located immediately outside the customs hall in international terminal and outside baggage claim area in domestic arrivals .
the nrityagram celebrates the vasantha habba ( the spring ) every year .
down on the waterfront the cutty sark , last of the great tea clippers , enjoys a new existence as one of london 's most popular attractions seen across the world every year as the london marathon winds its past this historic ship .
indian travel destinations organizes tours to goa as a prominent honeymoon destination in india for the aspiring honeymooners in india and abroad .
television companies often use both this park and the grass area across the road near the jewel tower , where they interview politicians .
caparisoned slephants with beaded umbrellas , processions of decorated floats , and highly ornate boats make this a lovely event to witness .
dalhousie square ( renamed benoy-badal-dinesh bagh after the three martyrs of bengal ) was created in the heart of the imperial capital of calcutta .
today , its well developed facilities , easy accessibility and many attractions make it one of india 's most popular hill resorts in the himalayan lower ranges .
the concrete campus and its accompanying lawns are meant to express the strength and unity of independent india .
although it is unusual to see many animals from the boats , still you spot a family of elephants , wild boar , and sambar deer by the water s edge .
kulu offers a variety of scenic charms , from wooded glades to barren rocks with snow above the tree line .
it was opened as a museum in 1923 and has three main sections art , archaeology and natural history .
here , a gallery houses the paintings of the russian artist , nicholas roerich. naggar also has three other old shrines .
chennai is head quarters to the theosophical society in india .
the indian python and king cobra are among the reptilian fauna .
allahabad has a wide range of hotels , with budget hotels located around the chowk in the old city .
urs is celebrated from the ist to the 9th of rajab annually .
kufri is a famous tourists spot only 16 kms from shimla .
there are not too many defenders of the millennium dome around these days .
electronics city is an industrial park spread over 330 acres exclusively meant for electronics industries .
legend has it that akbar , who had no son , went to the sufi saint sheikh salim chishti to seek his blessings .
at ayodhya several religions have grown and prospered simultaneously and also at different periods of time in the past .
the five star hotels have good restaurants , which serve authentic mughlai cuisine .
today , alappuzha has grown in importanceas a backwater tourist centre , attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year .
the banqueting house later became the scene of king charles i 's execution .
best time to visit thiruvananthapuram are , if you love the rains , anytime and if you don t september to may .
at the time of writing , no commercial airlines operate to allahabad .
the best idea around oxford street is to venture down the smaller streets which often contain old pubs and interesting shops .
itaip 's energy production has broken several records over the recent years , after the last generating unit was commissioned in 1991 .
the emphasis remains on providing for the community of people who live here .
vasco da gama , discoverer of the sea route to india , established the first portuguese factory ( trading station ) in cochin in 1502 , and the portuguese viceroy alfonso de albuquerque built the first european fort in india in 1503 .
for a breathtaking beautiful view of the taj mahal , see it by moonlight .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
even during the region of the mughals , it was called ratanpur territory and not chhattisgarh .
udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes , well structured palaces , lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the lake palace and the city palace .
let your senses sway to the romance of the surroundings as you pass forts , palaces , historical landmarks and villages .
before this , the continent was the subject of constant speculation , spoken of in almost mythical terms as terra australia incognita the unknown southern land .
avalanche is located at a distance of 28 kms from ooty .
there is a very interesting stupa constructed on elevated terrace which is the first of its kind in andhra pradesh .
a peculiar person , mant committed suicide after constructing some two dozen masterpieces because he was terrified that one of buildings would collapse .
if you are thinking of visiting the banqueting house , why not purchase a london pass which will admit you to this and many other london attractions for a single payment ; it also includes travel by public transport within the london area on buses , tubes and trains , zones 1 - 6 .
the island lies between thaneermukkom and kumarakom , and is accessible only by boat .
all inscriptions , literary works and the accounts of foreign travelers , made this region kosala of dakshin kosala .
a slightly scruffy area suffering from an unsightly flyover cutting right through its centre , hammersmith is home to the apollo which hosts many top class acts and popular shows .
by road it takes 3 hours to drive from dacca , the capital of bangladesh , to agartala .
around & about by air ahmedabad is connected to mumbai , delhi and major cities of india by air .
salim singh ki-haveli is just three centuries old , and is still lived in , its arched roof is held up by well excluded brackets in the form of peacocks .
from 377 to 353 bc , king mausollos of caria reigned and moved his capital to halicarnassus .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
they prove popular with both children and adults : one fascinating exhibit is an automated mine which was built from scrap metal by a welsh coalminer .
the plan to build a tower 300 meters high was conceived as part of preparations for the world 's fair of 1889 .
the city is full of architectural delights .
both these rivers are tributaries of the narmada , which flows through the district headquarters town of mandla , 64 km ( 40 miles ) to the northwest of the park 's western entrance .
there are wax models of the famous and infamous from every walk of life .
it is believed that kalidasa the 4th century sanskrit poet and play wright choose the setting for its masterpiece ` ` abhigyana shakuntalam ` ` in nag paharthe snake s forest heritage .
the annual flower , fruit and vegetable shows are regularly held here .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
kaziranga has a history of its own. lady curzon first heard about the rhinos of kaziranga from her british tea planter friend and came to assam in 1904-05. .
there are now plans to pedestrianism the area around the square and also whitehall and trafalgar square , but at the moment the traffic deters many people from reaching the square .
the temperatures are moderate and several festivals coincide with this period .
the central market , sojati gate , station road , sardar market , tripollia bazaar , mochi bazaar , lakhera bazar are some of the best shopping place in jodhpur .
it was nainital where col james edward corbett was born .
brindavan is an interesting place , and the sage has quite a few interesting aspects to his personalities .
the parade ground is also the venue for the annual trooping the colors and beating retreat ceremonies .
agra fort houses the beautiful pearl mosque and numerous palaces including the jahangiri mahal , khas mahal , diwanikhas , diwaniam , machihi bhawan and moti madjid .
he has many other features like omnipresence , eternality , and formlessness , though independence is peculiar to him .
the monpas and sherdak pens of tawang and west kameng districts follow the lamaistic tradition of mahayana buddhism .
all the elements were prepared in eiffel s factory located at levallois-perret on the outskirts of paris .
the important festivals of ooty are thaipoosam in elk hill murugan temple , bookkapuram mariamman annual festival , ooty mariamman temple festival , coonoor mariamman temple festival , boat races and boat races and boat pageantry in ooty , flower show in ooty and fruit show in coonoor .
gujarat had close ties with the life of the father of modern india , mahatma gandhi .
hampstead is the perfect place to spend a day simply strolling around : traversing the heath with its glorious views over london , navigating the little lanes and streets , peeking at the beautiful architecture and supping pints of ale at historic pubs .
birla mandir is a splendid temple built entirely out of white marble .
the shaking minarets of sidi bashir s mosque has generated tremendous curiosity .
this new lighting fixture is coupled with the gold-toned lighting system in place since 1986 for maximum effect .
the district of raipur possesses three wildlife sanctuaries .
if these are the qualifications for commissioning an ideal odyssey into one 's private confines , then darjeeling very much qualifies as the honeymoon destination in india which can get rid of all privations of practical life very much to the glee of the honeymooners in india .
birla mandir is one of the landmarks in new delhi - the capital of india .
the word dehradun too has a lot of meaning attached to it .
kullu is known for its ancient temples , apple orchards and the annual dusshera festival .
nestled in a narrow valley , the beautiful vidyadhar 's garden was built in honor of jai singh 's chief architect and town planner .
you can see and enjoy the rustic wooden bridges , sea of flowers , jogging paths , thatched huts , and paddle boats .
up tourism organizes the taj mahotsav every year between 18th and 27th february .
a perfect blend of arts , culture and craft is presented in shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material .
apart from this picture postcard beauty of kerala , a tour to chithirapuram reveals its agricultural importance to the more interested souls .
dudhwa tiger reserve is one of the finest , of the few remaining examples of the exceedingly diverse and productive tarai eco-systems. .
ephesus was later deserted , and only in the late nineteenth century has the site been excavated .
india travel destinations arranges for tours for honeymooners in india and the destinations for honeymooners in india are spread out all over the length and breadth of the country .
in time , the federation of motor sports clubs of india ( fmsc ) became the governing body of this sport .
the red sea canal consisted of two parts : the first linking the gulf of suez to the great bitter lake , and the second connecting the lake to one of the nile branches in the delta .
the sidi bashir mosque with its twin jhulta minars ( shaking minarets ) which has been one of the city s prime attractions for centuries .
early pyramids , such as the step pyramid of king zoser ( djoser ) at saqqara by the famous egyptian architect , imhotep , illustrate this connection .
the nat west tower was previously the head office of a british bank and is now the international financial centre .
located on the river plate , which has been one of the essential elements for the development of the territory , montevideo is also the country 's natural trading centre .
important tourist places in the city are the umaid bhawan palace , mahendragarh fort , jaswant thada and mandore garden .
secunderabad , which is part of hyderabad , originally developed around a british cantonment , set up in 1798 .
tourist places like birla mandir , charminar , golconda fort , salnejung museum are found here .
the most exciting feature of the festival however , are the snake boat races held at several places on the palm .
he brought in european varieties of wheat and barley ( which the badagas knew as sullivan ganji ) , vegetables such as cabbage , radish and turnip and fruits such as peach , apple and strawberry .
till emergence of raja wodeyar in 1578 ad , the mysore kingdom was a small feudatory kingdom under the vijayanagar empire .
hyderabad also boasts of one of the largest zoos in india , the nehru zoological park .
the city of the thousand-headed anantha , the holy serpent on which lord vishnu reclines , thiruvananthapuram is one of the most beautiful cities of india .
mandi town situated at the height of 750 m on beas river is the gateway to kulu valley and mainly serves as a travel crossroad as its name which means the market .
you can use ahmedabad as a base for excursions to the spectacular stepwell adalaj vav ( 19 km ) , modhera ( 105 km northwest ) an 11 th century sun temple , patan ( 130 km northwest ) the former capital of gujarat , and the nal sarovar bird sanctuary ( 58 km southwest ) marshes and a lake with flamingos , pelicans , ducks , geese , cranes , storks , ibises , spoonbills , kingfishers , swallows , fishing eagles , osprey , harriers and falcons .
built by akbar in red sandstone when he was through with the consolidation of his power after accession to power in 1654 , agra fort worked both as a military strategic point as well as the royal residence .
this has been made possible by improved equipment and transportation , and the availability of year round bookings in areas , hitherto , considered inaccessible .
the panias and irulas are confined to mudhumalai sanctuary .
and today , these offices have become the government arts college a tale of change and continuity that is very much the story of ooty .
still water low park on the hill is very peaceful and for even more peace there is always historic high gate cemetery .
the ajmer city was founded by raja ajay pal chauhan in the 7th century a . d . and continued to be a major centre of the chauhan power till 1193 a . d . when prithviraj chauhan lost it to mohammed ghauri .
the author of this work mulla ahmad had been able to obtain the names of these kings from an earlier sanskrit work ratnakar .
22 kms southwest of allahabad , is an archaeological site dating well before the 3 rd century bc .
the site india travel destinations takes you on tours to the historical monuments in jaipur that is popularly known as the pink city of rajasthan , india .
the main tourist attractions are panchpula , kalatop and khajiar lake .
in the normal course of events , all hotels in exotic locales are a big draw for people but honeymoon hotels in chennai belong to a different class altogether .
accessible from dahanu is udawada - the mecca of the zoroastrians with a large , beautiful temple which houses their sacred fire .
indian travel destinations arranges for tours to coorg , which is another of those lesser-known hill stations in india ensconced amidst the flowing tracts of river cauvery .
most of the international airlines , indian airlines , & many other private airline touch mumbai & connect mumbai with the major cities of india and abroad .
a good time to visit the chandigarh is after the rains , from september to november .
along the south lies nagaland , manipur and mizoram and meghalaya lies to her south-west , bengal and bangladesh to her west .
if you are a foodie , flavour food festival is the place where your favourite fantasy come true .
it is said that he got so much wealth from delhi that he was not able to carry in home .
the agra fort retains the irregular outline of the demolished mud wall fort of the lodis .
founded by raja rai singh , the fort is distinguished by its long range of 37 pavilions , a line of balconies and aerial windows of varying designs .
his reign witnessed a period of peace and consolidation and prosperity .
fierce resistance to colonization deterred most would-be occupiers from europe , although the territory formally changed hands many times between the dutch , english and french , before finally being confirmed as a dutch possession by the terms of the 1815 treaty of vienna .
in fact mumbai is the very soul of human enterprise .
allahabad today is an important city where history , culture and religion create a confluence much like the sacred rivers that cares this god-graced land .
despite a vast number of visitors to the main shopping areas , knightsbridge remains one of the most exclusive areas of london .
shopaholics will find plenty to intrigue in the central market , greenwich 's answer to petticoat lane , with an emphasis on vintage clothing .
camps run by the private sector are at barog in solan district , baspa ( sangla ) valley and kalpa in kinnaur , at tabo in spiti , at al hilal ( taragarh ) and dharamsala in kangra , at shoja near kullu and mashobra and baldian near shimla adventure camps are likely to be available soon in the pabbar valley in the jubbal hatkoti rohru area in shimla district .
considering the rudimentary means available at that period , this could be considered record speed .
chail has also the highest cricket ground in the world .
through thick cedar woods one can walk up to the mahasu peak , or examine the little zoo .
soon afterwards , in 1828 , the country declared war on peru , whose armies had invaded gran colombia .
with excellent hotels and guesthouses , the puri beach is an ideal holiday spot .
a little more recently charles dickens worked here as a clerk in the late 1820 's .
bada bagh is a fertile oasis that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city of jaisalmer .
boating and fishing facilities are available at kumarakom .
the umaid bhawan palace was built in the 20th century as a famine relief project , providing employment to its people over a time period of 16 long years .
on september 18 1884 eiffel registered a patent ` ` for a new configuration allowing the construction of metal supports and pylons capable of exceeding a height of 300 meters .
falaknuma palace is a masterpiece designed by an italian architect .
the three kings mentioned by him are huska , juska , and kanishka , each of them is credited with the foundation of a town , christened after their respective names : hushkapura , jushkapura and kanishkapura .
18 km from jalandhar , is kapurthala , believed to have been built in the 13th century , the city has a panch mandir , a hindu temple built by a sikh and a famous mosque designed by a french architect in the moorish style .
historically , ahmedabad was a major base camp during the indian freedom struggle .
rajasthan means ` ` land of the kings ` ` and the rajputs who lived here for over a thousand years are known for their code of chivalry and honor .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
the period also saw the establishment of small janapadas or republics in himachal pradesh .
he stopped killing of animals and birds throughout his kingdom .
lines drawn tangential to each upright with the point of each tangent at the same height , will always intersect at a second point , which is exactly the point through which passes the flow resultant from the action of the wind on that part of the tower support situated above the two points in question .
agartala is struggling to keep pace with its essential services vastly outstripped by an increasing population .
the sacred sangam is the confluence of three of the holiest rivers in hindu mythology ganga , yamuna and the mythical saraswati .
apart from these , there are many other rest houses where accommodation is available to suit every budget .
tea plantations are also part of munnar , which is a hill station of note in kerala india .
so wherever you are traveling in india , take a break and visit a wildlife park and see some of india 's abundance of animals and birds .
since most of the peaks of the garhwal himalayas are difficult to scale in winter , a climb to a mini peak , chandrashila , in chamoli district of uttar pradesh , is arranged for trek programs .
the internationally famous surajkund crafts mela is held every year in the month of february , to promote indian arts and handicrafts .
porters restaurant on henrietta street provides splendid british food at very reasonable prices if you ' re in need of sustenance .
one of bangalore 's most attractive features continues to be its pleasant weather .
jumma masjid is considered to be one of the most beautiful mosques in western india .
dada hari vava is step-well manifests a unique architectural feature of gujarat. step-wells were built to provide travelers with water and cool resting place .
if you go to the front gate between 3pm and 4pm , you may get an entry pass .
most of the good restaurants are in the sadar bazaar and cantonment areas .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
the assembly of the supports began on july 1 , 1887 and was completed twenty-two months later .
a vast stretch of land on the banks of river cauvery on the bangalore / mysore highway , it consists of islets in the cauvery river which are full of thousands of species of birds including herons , open-billed stork , white ibis , little egret , cattle egret , darter , spoonbill cormorant , pond heron , river tern and many more and also crocodiles .
from khonghampat orchidarium one can view over 120 species of orchids besides some of the rarest orchids in the world .
his sandals are made of gold , as is his robe. his garments are carved with animals and with lilies .
the andaman and nicobar islands have great maritime importance .
more tourist places like jog falls , nandhi hills are found here .
the former portuguese enclave of goa , one of india ; s gems , has enjoyed a prominent place in the travelers lexicon for many years .
taj is one of the wonders of the world .
referred by the chinese traveler hiuen tsang , this town was continuously inhabited from the 8th century bc till the 6th century ad .
he retired and left to england in 1841 and died unsung on january 16 , 1855 exactly 150 years to this day .
indian houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and traveling industry .
though the climate is suitable for visit anytime of the year , the best season is between october-february and just avoids june when it is too hot to sightsee .
lohagarh is also known as the iron fort , lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of bharatpur .
he passed away on october 6 , 1661 a.d. when only a little over five year old , he had been tried and tested as a perfect fearless and fully illuminated soul .
to reach the higher parts , an earth ramp was built around the statue and was later removed .
the lakshmana temple , intricate in its workmanship , the kandariya mahadev largest and architecturally the most perfect , where the interior has 872 spectacularly carved statues , the mahadeva temple is the smallest ; the devi jagadamba temple was first dedicated to vishnu , then parvati and finally to kali .
situated midway between india and burma , in the bay of bangal , the andaman and nicobar islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization .
there is a great selection of over fifty bars , cafes and restaurants catering for the sophisticated to the earthier .
the adilabad district is bounded by maharastra state in the east , west and north directions , karimnagar and nizamabad districts in the south direction .
known as the camel country , bikaner is has also made a mark in industrial sector .
skin along in a boat , trot up a pony ride. chug around in a toy train , wander about in the foir ground , and dress up your mind in the theatre .
in 1166 , an arab traveler , abou-haggag al-andaloussi visited the lighthouse .
on the other , it has survived the ravages of time ; look closer and you will discover that its branches have a tangled beauty and that its alternate leaves glow softly in the wintry sun .
trekking also bring the visitor directly in touch with the country and its people and helps you to appreciate the mountain environment .
originally inhabited by carib and arawak indians , venezuela was claimed as a spanish territory by christopher columbus in 1498 .
a great arrangement is to have a hired taxi waiting for you to ferry you around after your kettuvallam cruise down the backwaters gets over .
in 106 , the romans under trajan finally captured petra to mark the beginning of the decline of the city .
lambeth bridge was opened by king george v and queen mary .
the elephanta island is known as gharapuri ( fortress city .
this beach is comparatively quieter and an ideal place to go sea bathing. it is located near besant nagar .
nestled in the rich land is the royal bengal tiger , the only home to the royal tiger cat .
udayagiri and khandagiri are the twin hills 7 kms. from bhubaneshwar .
opposite ' the house ' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians .
this greenery shaded structure , measuring 19ft by 6.5ft marks the site where the remains of mutaz mahal were deposited when first brought to agra .
an alluring atmosphere of mystery , a land wrapped in velvety silence , is what instantly strikes a visitor to manipur , which literally means ' the land of jewels .
the maharawals ( rulers ) of jaisalmer were devout hindus but were tolerant of jainism , and encouraged art and religion .
innumerable monuments , finely carved temple , vihars , forts and palaces rise in the visitors mind visions of dynasties and kingdoms of great warriors and builders , of poets and musicians , of saints and philosophers , of hindusim , buddhism , jainism , christianity , and islam .
before the construction of taj mahal began , mumtaz mahal was given a temporary burial in the zainabadi garden in burhanpur for a period of six months , before the body was exhumed and brought to agra , for final burial .
sarkhej comprises one of the most elegant architectural complexes of ahmedabad .
the shaking minarets were damaged in the earthquake , but efforts are on to restore as much as is possible .
according to local tradition , like lord shri krishna , lord buddha is also supposed to have visited kashmir .
to be fair , some parts of the barbican are very pleasantly landscaped with fountains and plants , but ( with the exception of the roof conservatory ) you are never far way from grey 1960 's concrete slabs .
originally john nash built it as a gateway for buckingham palace , but the great architect got it wrong and made it too small for the royal coaches .
here stands the highest gravity dam in the world which controls the turbulent water of sutlej river for irrigation and power generation .
the valley consists of several segments , each with its own theme. flower gardens , jogging tracks and tennis courts dot the trail .
open through out the week except on mondays .
kanak bhawan has images of sri rama and sita wearing gold crowns. it is also known as sone-ke-ghar. .
in 1967 , the canal was closed at the wake of the six-day war , when israel occupied the sinai peninsula , causing the canal to act as a buffer zone between the fighting forces .
the summer temperature does not go very high , due to its proximity to the sea , and the nights are really pleasant .
untouched by the human skills and behaviors , the sand dunes of rajasthan is a perfect gift of nature that presents magical view of the desert .
nearest underground stops : paddington , edgware road , lancaster gate .
the royal journey rolls throughout the year except between the month of may and august .
on the corner near parliament square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a member of parliament wants a taxicab .
jaipur is perhaps the ideal city that you can choose for going on historical tours to rajasthan , north india .
the temple city of konark is situated in the eastern state of orissa at a distance of around 65 kms from bhubaneswar and 35 kms from puri .
gateway of india , this 26 meters high stone archway is the first landmark of mumbai a visitor sees when arriving by ship .
the tropical lowlands hide a huge array of wildlife , lush vegetation and dramatic waterfalls , yet within the same country lie high andean peaks , providing a challenge to trekkers and mountaineers .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
the main attraction are local birds like the waterfowl , cuckoo , owl , egret , heron and the water duck , as well as the migratory siberian cranes. parrots , teal , larks , flycatchers , wood beetle , and other birds are seen here during their respective migratory seasons .
these camps offer accommodation , catering and variety of activities like hiking , fishing , nature tours and rafting .
overlooked by the blue sky , the wind shaped dunes attracts large number of tourist from all over the world and any trip to rajasthan is incomplete without a trip to the sand dunes of rajasthan .
mysore is located 139 kms. to the south west of bangalore .
when the statue was completed , it barely fitted in the temple. strabo wrote : although the temple itself is very large , the sculptor is criticized for not having appreciated the correct proportions .
nehru zoological park is spread over 1.2 sq. kms of landscaped gardens and houses about 3000 animals .
national museum , it houses an excellent collection of bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
bangalore is situated at an altitude of 920 metres above sea level .
internal problems dominated the agenda for the next 30 years , as a series of governments struggled to keep the economy , which was almost completely destroyed as a result of the pacific war , from disintegrating .
shimla has an added attraction of mini zoo amidst dense forest to the tourists where a rare breed of wild animals and pheasants species commonly found in himalayan forest region have been kept in natural habitat .
the island offers a wide selection of handicrafts made from wood , fiber and sea shells .
harsha along with his son bhoja were murdered , and the kashmir throne passed into the hands of two princes respectively .
nohsngithiang falls ( in mawsynram ) , the town is also famous for its limestone caves and orange honey , and it also has the oldest presbyterian church .
it is situated on the banks of the river beas on the lower reaches of the himalayas .
a tour to kerala has all allurements of the order of sleepy backwaters , the mystical boatmen and the picturesque tropical forests in their right order .
these include fragment of statues and many slabs of the frieze showing the battle between the greeks and the amazons .
hyder ali and his valiant son tippu sultan are notable figures in the history of the land .
himachal pradesh is essentially a mountain state - it takes in the transition zone from the plains to the high himalayas and , in the trans himalayan region of lahaul and spiti .
with jeeps and elephants as modes of transport , one gets an excellent opportunity to examine survey and enjoy the diverse flora and fauna of the park .
one of the best institutions called the indian institute of management and indian institute of science are here .
the ooty lake , this artificial lake was constructed by john sullivan , the first collector of ooty .
within this alluring arena , the garwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
these leave from khuri village .
also in 1897 during the wedding ceremony of princess jayalakshmmanni most of the parts of the palace were burnt down by fire .
chattarpur mandir - a complex of temples called chattarpur mandir is located beyond the qutab minar in mehrauli , dedicated to goddess durga .
the chief geological formation of the ice-age here are the latchstring deposits called the ` ` karewas ` ` , which overlay the terminal moraines of the first glaciation and are comprised of two groups , lower and upper , differentiated by the moraines of the second glaciation .
lakshmi narayan temple also called birla mandirlakshmi narayan temple - this temple was build by g. d. birla in 1938 .
aranmula is also the centre of boll metal mirror crafts .
there are domestic flights from delhi , khajuraho and varanasi four times a week .
like many other provinces , the kingdom of caria in the western part of asia minor ( turkey ) was so far from the persian capital that it was practically autonomous .
the indian rupee is available in denominations of rs 1 , rs 2 , rs 5 , rs 10 , rs 20 , rs 50 , rs 100 and rs 500 .
centrally located in the western part of the state rajasthan , the jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces , forts & temples , worth visiting .
this palace was built by ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the third .
the celebrations culminate in a colorful carnival that attracts both locals and tourists alike .
is it simply a temple , how could it take its place among other unique structures such as the pyramid , the hanging gardens , and the colossus of rhodes .
for years , the sanctuary was visited by merchants , tourists , artisans , and kings who paid homage to the goddess by sharing their profits with her .
the trek from netwar to osla , is through dense forests of chestnuts , walnuts , willows and chinars .
today , this glorious palace on wheels train has become an integral part of royal rajasthan and an honor for india that covers some of the best tourist destinations in rajasthan .
as a hill station in india , dehradun is also home to the famed schools of the order of doon school and welhams as elite centers of learning in india apart from being a much sought after hill station in india , they qualify doon valley to be a star class educational center .
the base was made of white marble , and the feet and ankle of the statue were first fixed .
cross sections of parts of the wall show where medieval londoners continued to maintain and add to the wall .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
administrated by english heritage the jewel tower now houses the exhibition parliament past and present .
situated on the left bank of river sutlej at a distance of 41 km from ropar is anandpur sahib , it was here that guru gobind singh baptized the first five sikhs called the panch pyaras .
originally called sudarshan garh , nahargarh offers a breathtaking view of jaipur .
it also includes carved , gothic windows , which are home to different manifestations of lord shiva in coorg , a beatific hill station in india .
the fifth storey is entirely in white marble as against the lower storey which is finished in red sandstone .
the nahargarh fort located in jaipur , india is also situated on top of a hill .
' astranga ' literally means varied colors and is about 55 kms from konark and is a famous fishing harbor .
ahmedabad is also the main centre of the huge textile industry .
it was painstakingly dismantled and then reconstructed in the arizona desert where it still stands , and carries six lanes of traffic .
you will find the rich greenery of the kullu valley along with bare , brown mountains , glaciers and snowfields .
in kashmir , trout fishing is a lucrative business and the ideal season is from april to october .
panhala is 3 , 127 feet above sea level , but there is no scarcity of water around here .
the napo , galeras , cutuc , and c ndor ranges are located here .
this is now the administrative office of university of mysore ( uom ) and folklore museum .
the historian plutarch later wrote that the goddess was ` ` too busy taking care of the birth of alexander to send help to her threatened temple .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of my sore .
khimsar experiences extreme climatic conditions with very hot summers and cold winters .
to build the statue , his workers cast the outer bronze skin parts .
charminar is a rectangular four arched monumental gate often described as ' the arch of triumph of the east .
once a year the lingaraj temple deity is brought out for the ritual bath in the centre of the tank and it is believed a dip in the holy tank at bindusagar washes away all the sins .
the columns were 20 m ( 60 ft ) high with ionic capitals and carved circular sides .
the clock 's four dials each have a diameter of 23ft , the minute hands are 14ft long and the numerals on each face are nearly 2ft high .
of the seven wonders of the ancient world , only one had a practical use in addition to its architectural elegance : the lighthouse of alexandria .
the boat rides in the ` ` lake pichhola ` ` is also a memorable experience to relish for the honeymooners in india all this paraphernalia more than qualifies udaipur as an ideal honeymoon destination in india for the prospective honeymooners in udaipur , rajasthan , india .
the collection of reptiles and indian snakes is quite amazing and one can watch the snakes being fed , their venom being removed and if one is not squeamish about snakes can touch them too .
mumbai a cluster of seven islands derives its name from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisher folk , its oldest inhabitants. mumbai image .
the 300-years old fort of janjira is an architectural marvel - once upon a time considered to be impregnable .
the clear , warm waters of its caribbean coastline are ideal for snorkeling and diving , while numerous islands off the coast invite visitors to explore .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
there are many 'not-to-be-missed 'sights in mysore like the magnificent mysore palace , sri jayachamarajendra art gallery , st. philomena 's church , and krs brindavan gardens .
this place houses shrines of almost all faiths and a 95 year old library with a rare collection of books and manuscripts , many of which are written on palm leaves and parchments .
when a peace agreement was reached in 304 bc , the antagonids lifted the siege , leaving a wealth of military equipment behind .
river sports in the rapids are the most popular , throughout the summers and can really ret your adrenaline pumping .
the central chamber is octagonal , and in the centre is the tomb of the queen and to one side is the casket of the emperor .
the zoological garden with a setting that includes woodlands and beautiful lakes ; this is arguably one of asia s best laid - out zoos .
new models are being produced all the time while have-been are quietly removed from display and put into storage .
the beauty of the mausoleum is not only in the structure itself , but in the decorations and statues that adorned the outside at different levels on the podium and the roof .
the bathing at prayag is mentioned in brahma puran s in the month of magha at the bank of ganga yamuna in prayag bestows results of millions and millions of ashvmedha yajnaprayag is birth place of som , varuna and prjapati .
mexico city itself provides a contrast with the country s arresting topography : its sierra madre mountains , volcanoes , national parks and beaches .
in the mundane sense of the term khaijiar is a large lake akin to a field which is most of the time more than half empty and surrounded by snow from all the directions .
the celebrated chinese traveler huein tsang visited the state in the middle of 7th century a.d. nearly half ( 44 % ) of the state is forested and offers a unique panorama of flora and fauna .
the temples of dilwara , of course , simply have to be seen , but , in addition , some of the old palaces at mount abu make interesting viewing , like the bikaner palace - where the redoubtable maharaja ganga singh of bikaner used to come each year , with a retinue of 400 people .
legend has it that a gifted sculptor carved one less than a crore ( ten million ) images overnight , hence the name ' unakoti ( ` ` koti ` ` meaning crore .
there is also a library inside the lalgarh palace which has a large collection of sanskrit manuscripts .
weaving is a traditional art handed down through generations in nagaland .
all foreign tourists visiting manipur require restricted area permit issued by the ministry of home affairs , govt. of india , south block , new delhi - 110 011 .
the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
it was originally called lalbagh because the garden had a profusion of red roses .
organised by u . p . tourism and held as an annual event at shilpgram , literally next door to the taj mahal , the taj mahotsav is indeed a fitting tribute to the legendary skills of master craftsman and other exponents of art , music and cuisine .
if you are thinking of visiting the jewel tower why not purchase a london pass which will admit you to this and many other london attractions for a single payment ; it also includes travel by public transport within the london area on buses tubes and trains zones 1 - 6 .
argentina refused to recognize british sovereignty and has maintained a consistent claim to sovereignty ever since .
the kail and gori rivers meet at jauljibi where the water volume increases .
equally outstanding are certain other structures in which the pure inventiveness of eiffel 's company was allowed free rein , such as the ` ` portable ` ` bridges sold around the world in ` ` kits ` ` , the ingenious structure of the statue of liberty in new york , and of course the eiffel tower itself .
it is very likely that the temples that you will visit in chennai are unlike any other that you have seen before .
some of the popular historical monuments in jaipur , india that you can visit on your holiday tours are the jantar mantar , the amber fort , jaigarh fort , nahargarh fort , hawa mahal , lakshmi narayan temple , govind devji temple , sisodia rani palace , royal cenotaphs and jalmahal , royal cenotaphs .
the glistering white marble dome crowning this building can be sighted from a distance as it lies nestled amidst a well-laid out garden .
there are 7 temples in the complex - handraprabhu , parasnath , shitalnath , sambhavnath , shantinath , kunthunath and rikhabdev temple , the temples are all connected by a series of corridors and walkways .
early manipuris were followers of hinduism , and believed in the hierarchy of the gods .
ajmer is especially famous for the dargah shariftomb of the sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chisti , which is equally revered by the hindus and muslims .
in the old royal naval college , designed by sir christopher wren , is the painted hall , a front runner for the title of finest dining hall in the world .
the beautiful 6-yard paithani sari is woven with pure silk yarn and gold thread ( drawn from pure gold .
the old palace at bhuj retains the gujarati flavor despite some extraordinary oriental-gothic additions alongside that seem to have been dreamed up by a birmingham architect haunted by nightmares of mussolini .
kuchipudi , the indigenous style of dance of andhra pradesh , was born in the village of kuchelapuri or kuchelapuram , from which it takes its name .
one of the finest ways to discover the royal land of rajasthan is palace on wheels passes which through the inspiring , incomparable , implausible , impressive and inspirational land of india .
jogi mahal now converted into forest rest house is famous for the second largest banyan tree in india .
the temple was constructed in such a manner that the rising sun at the equinoxes shines straing into the shrine and illuminates the image of surya .
visa is mandatory except in the following cases bhutanese and nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months , nationals from the maldives , if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days .
situated midway between india and burma , in the bay of bangal , the andaman and nicobar islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization .
also the museum inside the mehrangarh fort has a rich collection of miniatures , musical instruments , costumes , armoury etc .
muttukadu place is an ideal picnic spot with facilities for boating and wind surfing ; it is 6 kms from chennai .
mehrangarh fort is one of the largest forts in india , situated on a hill top of 125m and spread over an area of 5km .
the state of tripura is supposed to have been named after this temple .
the composition of the forms and lines of the taj mahal is perfectly symmetrical .
copies of the statue were made , including a large prototype at cyrene ( libya ) .
the nishis or nishings is the major tribe in itanagar area .
one of the largest and oldest temples in chennai , the kapaleeswarar temple has inscriptions from the 13th century a.d. and is dedicated to lord shiva .
the boating facility attracts native as well as foreign tourists here in mount abu .
this is second in size , beauty and famous among the palaces .
ranikor is a scenic spot and an angler 's paradise because of a huge population of carp and mahseers .
very few have ventured onto the continent and those who do will usually rave about the privilege of gazing upon topography that yields towering mountains , bulky glaciers and luminous , dreamlike icebergs , carved into curious shapes .
the temples are a series of towers each higher than the other , culminating in a soaring shikhara .
there are forts on the western side of the palace which is almost in a square shape and has five entrances and is built in indi-cerasenic style .
the hall , which has a collection of hunting trophies , has now been converted into a museum .
cochin is now also an international gateway served by a few international airlines .
chamba is one of the oldest princely states and dates back its origin to 6th century ad .
there are gardens in front of the palace where people can sit and enjoy the beauty of the palace .
the mehtab bagh s forestry plantations and agricultural fields provide a green forecourt to tajmahal and its reflection in yamuna .
the counterbalancing cabin was latched onto a set of cables linking to the master cabin over the top sheaves .
there is an old world charm about the city that reaches out and leaves no one untouched .
it is a perfect and balanced amalgamation of the southern and oriental exclusivity with the western tenets of hospitality and efficient service right at the doorstep of honeymooners in india .
by virtue of its proximity to the sea , the town has always enjoyed a unique place in the maritime history of kerala .
but all of this would be of little value if it were not for the links provided by the docklands light railway , with its system of driverless trains weaving ingeniously between ultra-modern architecture and smartly converted old warehouses , rather like a sedate roller coaster .
the country will particularly appeal to travelers who have already been to larger , more varied south american destinations , but who are now ready to experience the more subtle attractions of the continent such as learning about the guarani indians , watching nanduti lace being made or seeing a jaguar or alligator .
the best time to birds watch is between june and august .
himchal pradesh offers the manali velley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
rajasthan is the indian state which borders pakistan on the western side of the country .
the formal creation of the uruguayan state took place in 1828 .
multinational banks have a few branches in ahmedabad ; both they and indian banks offer atm facilities so any time money is yours for the asking .
the city remained unknown to the western world for hundreds of years until a swiss explorer , j.l. burckhardt , heard about its existence from the local bedouins in 1812 .
the sun temple located at modhera in gujarat , west india was constructed during the rule of the solanki ruler , bhimdev i .
a specially set up tented camp will serve as a temporary accommodation for pilgrims and tourists who are visiting amaravati to attend the kalachakra - a holy ceremony for world peace .
among the vintage models which had come in from different cities of india to take part in the 1997 vintage car rally , one could spot the 1903 humber , 1919 fiat 501. 1923 rover , 1936 mercedes benz 170v , 1938 moms 8 , 1923 austin and the 1926 erskine .
kullu is also famous for its handicrafts and woolens like shawl , caps , puhla , namdas and patoos .
when akbar s was son was born in his gratitude , he constructed his capital city and named it fatehpur sikri .
the icy heights of the himalayas the source of some of india s mighty rivers .
mysore in karnataka also has a profusion of palaces and enchanting havelis .
born in dijon in 1832 , he graduated from the ecole centrale des arts et manufactures in 1855 , the same year that paris hosted the first world 's fair .
not surprising , for the mughals emperors with their passion for building , endowed the city with some of the finest structures in the world .
yusmarg is a small meadow set in the heart of mountains to the south-west of srinagar , at a distance of 47 km .
the state has no shops or bars selling liquor .
the light-colored ones are the ones from jaisalmer , and are prized for their speed .
a small charge is made for a 35 minute audio tour , which includes a visit to the crypt .
the scholars also , accept the theory that the valley for over two hundred years was ruled by indo-greek kings before the start of turushka ( kushan ) rule in the state .
built in the 16th century gujarati style , the monument stood testament to british supremacy. ironically , it was from here that the last british troops left the country after independence .
this is an excellent place from which to start your time in greenwich .
however , though the english legacy is undeniable , chennai has continued to be a centre which has blended the foreign influence with the traditional tamil-hindu culture .
shilong the capital city of meghalaya with an incomparable climate which lies at a height of 1 , 496 metres , above sea level .
st. george forane church , considered to be of the oldest churches in kerala , was built on a plot of land donated by the raja of edapally .
the southern side of the palace is open to public and has been named ` ` rabindra kanan .
built in 1880 , this palace was school for ` ` chamaraja wodeyar ` ` , ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar ` ` , and young princes .
the courtyard of the alamgir dargah ( shrine ) is also the burial spot of the last great mughal emperor , aurangzeb .
in the city of bodrum ( f.k.a. halicarnassus ) on the aegean sea , in south-west turkey .
mahatma gandhi built the sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , from where he guided india to freedom .
the spillway is located on the right bank , and it has 14 segmented sluice-gates with a total discharge rate of 62 , 200 cubic meters per second ( twice that of the highest flood - level on record .
it was here that sage parashuram washed away his sin , sage vyasa meditated , king bhishmaka founded his kingdom and lord krishna married his consort rukmani .
young horses are bought and reared in the hills .
these prehistoric remains are of great interest as they give us a picture of ways and lifestyles of the people who lived in the past .
with the american and the british refusing to secure a loan for the construction , it was the soviets that designed the earth structure and provided the equipment required to build the power station .
the duration can vary between one day and two weeks .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
it is still considered to be the official entrance to buckingham palace , hence the presence of the queen 's life guards .
before her , two other queens had ruled kashmir namely yashovati and sugandha .
around some of the concrete corners there are unexpected surprises , like a couple of ancient churches that survived the bulldozer , and even sections of the old london wall .
the growth of the city continued under later kings such as artaxerxes i ( ca . 450 bc ) who finished the hall of 100 columns and artaxerxes ii ( ca . 350 bc ) who built the unfinished palace. however , the most glorious monuments in persepolis were commissioned by xerxes i ( ca . 470 bc ) : the gate of all nations , and the throne hall .
a journey through the hill resorts hills in arunachal pradesh of india promises a deep and refreshing communion with nature in its varying beauty .
the production of paddy increased and the price of one khirwar ( nearly two mounds ) came down to 36 dinars from 200 dinars .
museum of natural history gives an over all look of the evolution of earth and its natural history .
apart from its long history , the alwar city has a rich natural heritage with some beautiful lakes and picturesque valleys thickly wooded in parts .
often likened to scotland , it has rolling hills , heather-covered slopes , beautiful waterfalls , moving mists , silent lakes and a rich unique variety of flora and fauna .
from the rule of the jats to the early british period , agra s monuments were plundered and exquisitely crafted pieces transported away .
fancy dress carnivals , gymkhanas ice hockey and dances enliven every season in shimla .
lakshminarayan temple is a modern hindu temple built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
just 176 kms from delhi is a very special wilderness - the keoladeo ghana national park , one of the finest water-bird sanctuaries in the world .
the changing the guard ceremony now takes place only every other day in the winter but it is still daily in the summer months .
on the left bank a rockfill dam is linked to the main dam and at the other end to an earthfill dam .
tigers , cital , wild boar and other animals are also found in the ranthambore national park .
parikshith thampuran museum adjacent to the shiva temple was the durbar ( court ) of the cochin rajas .
one can see architectural genius in the neat geometrical design of residential quarters , reinforced concrete structures and self-contained area layouts .
historically famous palnadu war and first and foremost tax non cooperation movement in 1921 were the happenings in this district .
the western catchment is about 20 km from parson 's valley , and it is a rolling grassy down , interspersed with temperate sholas in valleys and depressions .
opposite the old bailey is the church of the holy sepulcher .
pushkar fair is held every year on the auspicious fool moon day of the hindu month of karthik ( october-november ) .
the most impressive elevated regions of this area are in the north and include volcano sumaco .
other animals can be seen in periyar national park are gour , wilds pigs , samber , barking deer , mouse deer , dole or indian wild dog snd very rarely , a tiger .
a number of famous streets emanate from the circus including piccadilly itself with its smart hotels and shops , including the elegant fortnum & & mason department store that was founded in 1707 , hatchard 's ( london 's oldest bookshop founded in 1797 ) , the ritz hotel and the royal academy .
turn right out of high street kensington tube station and a walk of just a few hundred yards will bring you to the gates of kensington palace .
as we go from ooty to gudalur , the change in vegetation is striking .
archbishop 's park next to the palace is used as a public space although it is actually part of the palace grounds .
trekking in india is an unforgettable experience as it not only let you to experience the unexplored trails made by nature .
the gardens also have a green house as an added attraction for the backpack traveling sorts .
celebrated in ballads and the scriptures for its natural beauty and closely associated with the epic ramayan , chitrakoot or ` ` the hill of many wonders ` ` is a hallowed centre of pilgrimage .
dumdama is basically a lake surrounded by the enchanting aravali ranges and is popular for rock climbing , paragliding and ballooning .
the construction started in 1902 and was completed in 1932 ; it is built in indo-greek style and encompasses 38 acres of land .
the archipelago of col n ( commonly known as the gal pagos islands ) is made up of 13 main islands , 17 islets , and dozens of ancient rock formation .
the ancient greeks called it ` ` kasperia ` ` and the chinese pilgrim hien-tsang who visited the valley around 631 a. d. called it kashi-mi-lo .
the 30 rock hewn caves are adorned with buddhist sculpture and the frescoes portray in epic form the religious and secular life through eight centuries .
his outstanding career as a constructor was marked by work on the porto viaduct over the river douro in 1876 , the garabit viaduct in 1884 , pest railway station in hungary , the dome of the nice observatory , and the ingenious structure of the statue of liberty .
outside the fort is the main market place called manak chowk which is the centre of local activity .
wular lake is the largest fresh water lake in asia and measures 24 kms across and surrounded by towering mountains .
kalhan who wrote his famous chronicle ( rajatarangini ) nearly four hundred years after the death of lalitaditya , records that even in his time the victories of the great victor were being celebrated throughout the valley .
123 km from jhansi , deogarh is situated on the right bank of the betwa river , at the western end of the lalitpur range of hills .
the sanjay gandhi botanical garden also has an artificial lake where boating can be enjoyed .
this ashram was named hriday kunj , as it was a haven for the so-called untouchables who were addressed as harijans by the mahatma .
fresh tender coconut water is another way to quench your thirst .
the dark-colored camels come from gujarat and the female camels are prized for their milk-producing capacity .
the temples of ummaneshwar and jagannath on the grounds of this palace are open to all .
a year later , a peace treaty was signed and ecuador 's boundaries were permanently established .
kurukshetra is one of the most sacred places for hindus .
constructed in the pattern of apartments , the amar sagar haveli is a five story high haveli adorned with beautiful painted murals .
the original plans for the houses of parliament can be seen at sir john sloane 's museum .
perhaps no other country has more to offer the visitor than peru : panoramic mountain ranges , vast deserts , beautiful beaches and tropical jungle .
for us , we can only wonder about the true appearance of the statue - - the greatest work in greek sculpture .
as eiffel he explains : ` ` all the cutting force of the wind passes into the interior of the leading edge uprights .
the extensive ruins of his capital city parihaspur , speak of his activities in the field of art and architecture .
gandhinagar is the capital city of gujarat and it is famous for the akshardham temple which has been built in the memory of lord swaminarayan .
corbett national park corbett is a haven for tigers as well as its prey , which include four kinds of deer , wild boar and some lesser-known animals .
in front of the main entrance is a platform , which is popular for use as a spot for taking photographs .
it is a major tourist attraction and centers upon the piazza which was originally designed by inigo jones in the 1630s .
sea are rough only during the monsoon which strikes between june and september - depending on the kind of holiday you plan you can be positive that is no ordinary holiday .
national rail museum is unique in its collection of rail engines and locomotives .
the great mauryan emperor ashoka is recorded to have ruled kashmir , and kalhan rightly mentions that the king was a follower of buddhism .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
eiffel had thought about exploiting the image of the tower commercially himself , but faced with a general outcry from hordes of goods producers ; he gave up his rights and let the image fall into the public domain .
nearest railhead is silchar ( assam ) , which is 180 km .
sanch s great stupa , the oldest stone structure in india , the stupa has magnificently carved gateways or toranas .
the chail wild life sanctuary is another showpiece in the itinerary of wares which chail , a royal hill station in india has to offer to its connoisseurs .
dedicatory inscription of the lighthouse .
allahabad is the city that hosts throngs of pilgrims each year at the religious fairs the annual magh mela , the ardh kumbha fair ( 6 yearly ) and the maha kumbha , which occurs every twelve years .
the monument was dedicated to the savior gods : ptolemy soter ( lit . savior ) and his wife berenice .
the architectural splendor of the mausoleums , the fort and the palaces is a vivid remainder of the capital in the 16th and early 17th centuries .
hundreds of small shops , very good restaurants and smashing pubs add yet more allure .
ajanta has been designated as a , to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will continue to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come .
you learn that the long-haired camel with hair on its ears is the bikaner variety , famed for its strength .
the gleaming white domes , pillars and archways resemble the architectural pattern of mysore 's old palaces .
natural walks along the river are a real treat and for adventure lovers rock climbing can be arranged .
this house has a lovely prayer hall and a huge library that contains the choicest of books .
a 500 mts long ski lift carries skiers back to the slope top , thus saving them the trouble and time to bridge up wearing long skis .
khumbalgarh provide an excellent view of the countryside where many fierce battle were fought ; it also has its significance of being the birth place of maharana pratap .
dalhousie 's natural beauty , invigorating air , warm sunshine and quiet surrounding add enchantment to its open and colorful valleys , level walks and treks amidst the dense forests .
this is the fourth london bridge to span the river at this point .
the city of udaipur is a lovely land around the azure water lakes hemmed in by the lush hills of the aravalis .
anyone who has lived here can never be happy anywhere else in the world .
the assimilation of different styles has given the buildings within the fort a distinctive look .
rafting the wild rapids below the falls was the first innovation more than ten years ago .
since mythology has it that krishna was born in prison , the best and most elaborate jhankis ( tableaux ) are displayed at local police stations , which use the opportunity to enjoy a week-long cultural festival .
this is perhaps the only known find of such a settlement in india .
allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city .
aurangzeb chose khuldabad as his final resting place because the mausoleum of sayeed zain-ud-din , a muslim holy man lies next door .
the tour guide , india travel destination offers a series of package tours to the enthusiasts to undertake adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference .
a spell on a houseboat on dal lake has always been one of india 's real treats and kashmir also offers some delightful trekking opportunities and unsurpassed scenery .
for breathtaking views of blue hazed hills and vales , head to phawangpui vantawang is the spectacular waterfalls 137 km from aizawl , among the highest in india at 230 m above sea level .
the roads are reasonably good and driving on them is quite pleasant , particularly if you have a driver .
the great mughal emperor babar laid out this earliest example of a mughal garden .
a charming museum can be found on craven hill n the london toy & model museum which houses a vast collection of children s toys .
after this palace was destroyed by lightning. in ad 1638 , it was re-constructed by ` ` ranadheera kantheerava narasaraja wodeyar .
ram raja temple , with soaring spires , an unusual temple that was once a palace , here lord rama is worshipped as king .
jamnagar was built by the jadeja rajputs , known as jams , as their capital in the 16th century. it is famous for its lake which is surrounded by two buildings called kotha bastion and lakhota palace .
the exquisitely carved wooden mansions are beautiful examples of the craftsmanship of the time .
the list of shops reads right across the board with old-established names like austin reed and boots rubbing frontages with gap kids and top shop .
it is also an excellent base to explore the interiors of kerala , the southernmost region of india , and from kochi , the lakshadweep islands .
the museum has a large collection of excavated items many of which date back to 2nd and 3rd century b.c. .
if you donate a few coins to the attendant , he will lay them as offerings on the graves .
broadly , the entire population may be divided into three cultural groups based on their socio-politico-religious affinities .
surat is known for its textiles , zari work , and diamond cutting and polishing industry .
possibly the most famous clock face and chimes in the world , big ben is actually the name of the biggest bell ( 13.5 tons ) inside the clock tower ( 320ft ) which forms part of the houses of parliament .
for the years that followed , the temple attracted visitors and worshippers from all over the world .
the bare minimum is just under $ 18 a day while a top end holiday could blow through the roof .
however , the spanish only established themselves on west falkland and , in 1765 ; the british took control of the eastern island .
the astronomical instruments at the jantar mantar were meant to determine the exact position of longitudes , the equator and the latitudes .
it was vasumitra and nagarjuna who gave shape and form to this new school of thought .
a magnificent royal palace and the hunting lodge built by maharaja vinay singh in 1845 a.d. for his queen shila stands overlooking the lake .
after the abolition of slavery in 1834 , the plantation owners imported laborers from india .
fort st. george was among the first few bastions built by the east india company to protect its interests in india and this fortification also marks the beginning of madras ( chennai ) as a modern city .
ellora caves encompass 34 rocks cut shrines representing buddhist , hindu and jain art .
mysore celebrates regional , national and religious festivals with pomp like any other part of the country .
tour to chail dharamshala , at an altitude of 4000 m above sea level , it is located on spur of dhaulandhar range .
ancient yet modern , fabulously rich yet achingly poor , mumbai is india in microcosm .
taj mahal was structured in persian style combined with carvings of artisans called from afghanistan and the garden designers from kashmir .
most of the tribes in arunachal pradesh tend to follow the techniques of jhumming , shifting agriculture and terrace farming in order to grow crops and survive .
a third mythical saraswati river , believed to flow underground towards the sangam , gives the confluence its other name ' triveni ' .
the word mumbai is derived from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisherfolk , the oldest inhabitants of mumbai .
the sheesh mahal or palace of mirrors , whose mirrored walls reflected and enhanced the lamplights , was used by the women for bathing .
india travel destinations offers you details of a number of historical monuments in the different states of india .
ranthambor national park is included under the project tiger reserves of the world and is more popular for its tiger population .
guide will approach you at offers of trips via jeep or taxi to the hills and if you can get a group together , these trips work out as a good travel value .
the ashoka pillar has several edicts and a persian inscription of emperor jahangir in scripted on it .
consecrated by the dalai lama , the buddhist temple , a beautiful yellow roofed shrine reflects the extensive tibetan influence and provides good views of itanagar and the surrounding countryside .
the people in the bangalore city are warm , hospitable and friendly .
the average lunchtime will see the streets filled with a seething mass of dark suits ; the health conscious scurry to find a quick bite from one of the many excellent sandwich bars , while the more choleric disappear into one of the countless dungeonesque wine bars or city pubs where daylight is an ugly word and a lunch hour can conclude well after sunset .
after shah jahan built red fort the attention of administration shifted to gorgeous palaces of the fort .
there 's so much you can do , study temple and churches , stroll through whispering coconut groves .
the jain temple , built in white marble , is dedicated to adinath , the first apostle of the jains .
by 1828 , there were some 25 european houses , not to mention churches and the houses of immigrants from the plains .
several championship rallies are held in india every year .
rishabhadeo jain temple , brahma kund , amawan temple , tulsi chaura , laxman quila , angad tila , shri rama janaki birla temple , tulsi smarak bhawan , ram ki paidi , kaleramji ka mandir , datuvan kund , janki mahal , gurudwara brahma kund , ram katha museum , valmiki ramayan bhawan , are places of interest in ayodhya .
a little further down cromwell road , the natural history museum is one of the grandest buildings in london and will occupy anyone with even the vaguest interest in the natural world .
the most ancient of the holy abodes is the vimal vashi temple , which is dedicated to the first tirthankar , constructed by vimal shah , a gujrati merchant .
the city of bassein was at its architectural best in 1534 , with one cathedral , five convents and 13 churches .
as per writing of padam puran as the sun is amongst the moon and the moon amongst the stars , likewise prayag is best amongst all places of pilgrimage .
the lion safari is popular attraction ; however , the small population of animals , which includes a few tigers and panthers , faces extinction due to urban encroachment .
the pagoda like tazia tower rises from the badal mahal ( palace of clouds ) , each storey of this five-tiered tower has a beautifully carved balcony .
fatehpur sikri 's sights include monuments from the times of akbar : the buland darwaza and the dargah of salim chishti .
visitors are welcome in both the lords ' and commons ' public galleries when the houses are sitting .
no one without an eye for natural beauty would have chosen that special site for the construction of a temple , and no one with an inclination to the ephemeral and transient world have built it , on so massive , and enduring a scale .
erected in the middle of ram niwas garden , albert hall was built in 1876 to mark the visit of prince of wales .
the present building was built , for the most part , after the great fire of london in .
in bomdila tawang and the nearby buddhist monastery , which is the largest in india are places worth a visit .
complementing the man made perfection of the khajuraho temples is the dramatic scenic splendor of panna national park , 32 km away .
ooty is well connected by good roads .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the taj , enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
all in all , bangalore is a lovely city to visit .
mehrangarh fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city .
if you are traveling to allahabad in summer , light cottons are sufficient .
on the other side is green park and past royal residences , lancaster house , marlborough house , spencer house and st james 's palace .
in nirmal town , adilabad district of andhra pradesh there is a concentration of craftsmen known as nakash , whose traditional art is painting scenes from the hindu epics mahabharata and ramayana .
in ad 956 , an earthquake shook alexandria , and caused little damage to the lighthouse .
haryana was made into a full fledged state on 1st november 1966 from the hindi - speaking regions of punjab state .
gundicha is also the name of the king indradyumna , who originally established the temple of jagannatha .
from bharatanatyam , kathak , kathakali , kuchipudi , manipuri , mohiniattam to odissi , nishagandhi dance festival is an unique opportunity to be a part of grace and elegance in so many different forms .
alappuzha is also famous for its boat races , houseboat holidays , beaches , marine products and coir industry .
an important part of rajasthan tour , camel safari gives an inner view of the traditional and colorful rajasthan .
meghalaya is one of the most picturesque states of india , offering a spectrum of sylvan surroundings , rich cultural heritage , misty heights , breathtakingly beautiful waterfalls , luxurious vegetation , flora and fauna .
state museum is , a representative collection of himachal pradesh 's rich heritage exhibits which include archeological artifacts , carvings , paintings and sculptures .
an ideal destination to explore the rustic charm of rajasthan , khimsar is famous for its fort .
singda is a hill resort on the hills , 16 kms. from imphal to the west .
it is open from 8 am and 11 am and 2 pm to 5 pm on mondays to fridays and from 8 am to 11 am on saturdays .
originally there were two separate towns - - waltair and vishakapatnam , however , due to rapid development the two have virtually merged .
in the past many notorious murderers have been tried in that court , including dr crippen , the victorian wife-killer who was the first man to be caught by use of a radio signal , when he tried to flee london for his home in america .
however , just 15 years after it was established , the court had to be moved out of fatehpur sikri because of acute shortage of water .
inside the taj mahal the cenotaph of mumtaz mahal stands in the centre of the marble screen , it has inscribed on it in persian with texts from the koran .
balighai1 is just 8 kms away from the crowds of puri , on the mouth of river nuanai , balighai has excellent beach and the sea turtle research center .
chamba has preserved the ancient culture and heritage and chamba is known for the elegence of its temples and handicrafts .
taxis are the only available option to explore aizawls surrounding sights ; you can rent one or share it with other people .
of the six vanished wonders , the lighthouse of alexandria was the last to disappear .
however , itanagar can be called as mini india , as people from all over the country , live here in harmony .
there must have been small garrison towns spotted along the length. there were n't many farms or trade towns to provide ease , relaxation and food .
bishnupur is famous for its conical roofed temple , dedicated to lord krishna .
victoria encompasses a large area and is a draw for a huge number of tourists perhaps because of the excellent conations to the rest of the uk .
modelled on the taj mahal , aurangabad 's mughal tomb garden was built by prince azam khan in memory of his mother , begum rabia daurani .
also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , it is a marshy area , which was originally built as a hunting retreat of the kings of bharatpur .
kangra is a small town and was the capital of the erstwhile rulers of the chand dynasty .
the sun temple konark is built by raja narsimhadeva of the ganga dynasty , in the 13th century ad , the temple is the culmination of orissan temple architecture .
the overwhelming scientific and historic evidence still supports the conclusion that , like many smaller pyramids in the region , the great pyramids were built by the great ancient egyptian civilization off the west bank of the nile as tombs for their magnificent kings .
the jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside rajasthan .
75 km from agartala is , ' the peak of gods , where there are rock carvings of hindu gods like shiva ( the destroyer ) , vishnu ( the protector ) , kartik ( god of travel ) and durga ( goddess shakti .
bangalore has some beautiful temples .
red fortred fort - built in red sand stone this imposing fort is 3 kms in perimeter with the height of the wall varying from 18 to 30 meters at places .
for architects , it meant even more : it was the tallest building on earth. and for scientists , it was the mysterious mirror that fascinated those most .
the french first moved in a century later .
the well known places of tourism are chowpathy beach , juhu beach , elephanta caves , good markets like crawford and chor bazaar are found here .
between 1761 and 1799 , hyder ali along with his son tippu sultan ruled the state .
these were built by maharaja jai singh and are actually an observatory .
the trip was a seesaw affair during which visitors had to change cabins halfway up by walking along a narrow gangway with a rather impressive vertical downwards view .
tippu was a great scholar and lover of literature .
on one side is st james 's park , leading to the horse guard 's parade ground .
ahmedabad was named after the sultan ahmed shah , who built the city in 1411 .
it was the portuguese who first colonized goa and they initiated the rich tradition of church architecture in goa , which goes on to make goa into a major honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india .
king george v , who as prince of wales , laid the foundation stone of this museum in 1905 .
the only surviving photograph ( see picture ) presents a somewhat portly person , who seems both sad and sullen .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
in the winters , temperatures may touch a low of 5 celsius .
a native land , a land of exploration and a land of enslavement , the extraordinary history of french guiana has left its traces in every sector of today 's society and can still be sensed in a number of almost mythical places : iles du salut , which include the infamous devil 's island where political prisoners were held , mount favard , the saint-laurent du maroni transportation camp and the iracoubo church .
gokul attained importance during the time of vallabhacharya ( 1479-1531 ) when it became a major centre of the bhakti cult .
rains from june to september often disrupt life and vital communications .
shivaganga is 50 kms from the city center is a hill which provides a breath-taking view of the the nearby areas .
this variety is reflected in the food , architecture , music and culture of brazil .
in australia , hundreds of kilometers away from the site , the explosion was heard .
for centuries , the rohtang pass has been the gateway for trading routes to lahaul , ladakh and central asia .
otherwise , pop down poland street for a drink and snack at the excellent porters bar - a perfect respite from the crowds .
over 300 species of birds are found here ( keoladeo ghana national park ) and raised paths , camouflaged by babul trees and undergrowth make viewing easy .
the government museum , mathura originally founded by f . s . growse in 1874 , is today one of the leading centres for research , study and the preservation of mathura s splendid heritage of art .
indian airlines connects imphal with calcutta , dimapur , silchar , guwahati and delhi .
280 , 000 ' city gents ' , stockbrokers , traders and shopkeepers pile into the city every weekday morning , and pile out again every evening .
the temple is dedicated to the goddess of prosperity and good fortune .
the most meager that your budget should get is us $ 20 per day of your stay on this amount , you ll struggle with dormitory accommodation , look for cheap grub , and constantly try to figure out bus routes and timings but you ll just about survive .
it is suggested one walk around the outside of the tomb , before retrieving your shoes , to appreciate it from all sides .
historically , haryana goes back to mahabharata times , for it was here , at kurukshetra , that the war was fought .
visitors may drive across the bridge and through howrah , the industrial extension of calcutta or take ferry from chandpal or tekta ghats to the gardens .
in charles dickens ' pickwick papers the guildhall is the setting for the court case of bardell vs pickwick .
the bridge and the surrounding area get their name from an order of dominican monks who had a monastery here .
hindus traditionally regard river confluences as auspicious places , more so the the sangam at allahabad , where the yamuna and the ganges meet the river of enlightenment , the mythical saraswati .
there are many attractions available in the sirmaur .
in addition , you can eat and relax in the orangery built for queen anne .
this was home to the late diana princess of wales and is the current residence of the queen 's sister , princess margaret .
of all the rivers , ganga is the most beautiful river .
one of the more well known rallies , till about a few years back , was the himalayan car rally , which has since been discontinued .
a group of archaeologists surveyed the area of the southern palace and reconstructed the vaulted building as the hanging gardens .
the bustling sounds from the nearby spital fields meat market and the general old world charm of this spot were endearing enough to lure john betjeman , one the best loved poet laureates to buy a property nearby .
jaipur airport , 13 km from city centre ( m.i. road ) , is quite a small airport with all facilities housed in a single building .
the beach can be ideally visited in the early mornings or in the late evenings when the area becomes a virtual fair ground ; with food stalls and other entertainment .
this estimate has been made keeping in mind urban india .
indian airlines connect chandigarh with delhi , jammu , srinagar and leh .
then , the district is host to periyar river , which flows through two massive rocks in the region , which again have mythological connotations attached to them .
this palace was a hotel for some time and currently this is crumbling without any maintenance , visitors are not allowed to this palace .
the most imposing excavation is , without doubt that of the magnificent kailasa temple ( cave 16 ) , which is the single largest monolithic structure in the world .
the hesaraghatta lake , a man-made lake , near the village is also a popular tourist spot .
the country is geographically divided into the amazon , the highlands , the coast , and the gal pagos islands .
the festivities commence with a spectacular procession inspired by mughal splendor .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
a delicately carved trelliswork marble screen encloses them the empress tomb , which is directly under the dome , has the 99 names of allah inscribed on it .
visit the 450 year old dhoongri temple dedicated to goddess harimba with its exquisite and unique carvings , tibetan monastery , the majestic beas river and jagatsukh ancient capital of manali .
this is also called as summer palace .
manvar desert is best for the outdoor adventures and excitement .
later , after the first war of independence in 1857 the british established a penal colony here and andamans and port blair , the capital , came to be a dreaded word .
the letter he wrote from the neilgherry hills to thomas munro , who went on to become governor of madras , is ecstatic .
unlike other mughal tombs , the garden of the taj mahal has been laid out entirely in front of the tomb and does not play any part in the ' background ' .
founded in the sixth century bc by the kings of the first persian empire ( the achaemenids ) , persepolis is located 60 km northeast of shiraz in iran .
the nearest railheads are mahoba ( 64 km ) and harpalpur ( 94 km ) , jhansi ( 175 km ) and satna ( 117 km ) are convenient railheads for visitors from delhi , mumbai , calcutta , chennai , agra & varanasi .
hawa mahal was built by maharaja sawai pratap singh in 1799 ad and lal chand usta was the architect .
kasauli is encircled by a mixed forest of chir pine , himalayan oak and huge horse-chestnut. .
chandigarh , the terminus of northern railway , is connected with mumbai , delhi , kalka and other major cities in india .
mysore - the former capital of the erstwhile wodeyars and also of the state of mysore lost its prominence to bangalore .
since early historic ages , violent volcanic activity has been known to exist in the region .
ahmedabads international terminus and 45 star hotels have money changing bureaus .
there is beauty and intelligence , the exotic and the mundane ; there are ayurvedic massages that elicit equal amounts of pain and pleasure , beaches and lagoons with the best part being the preservation of it all way nature meant it to be .
annual festival arthunkal perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810 , the church is dedicated to st george .
chamundi hills is 1150m hill that is named after goddess durga , the consort of lord shiva , who vanquished the demon mahishasura .
ranthambore wild life park is among the few sights in the world where the tiger regime is supreme .
new lord mayors of london are sworn in inside the great hall and it is also the venue for sumptuous banquets given by the corporation of the city of london for visiting heads of state .
a few kilometers from manali is the rohtang pass , a place known for the divergent landscapes .
apart from the regular sections the museum has regular exhibition on different themes .
the bulky animal meves around with surprising speed and poise .
the country enjoys 500km ( 300 miles ) of fine sandy beaches on the atlantic and the r o de la plata , woods , hills , hot springs , hotels , casinos , art festivals and numerous opportunities for sport and entertainment .
india is a major venue on the international rally circuit , with quite a few rallies now established as annual events , attracting not only national level participation but also from the international level .
this characteristic is exemplified by the long esplanade called the marina and which is lined by impressive buildings which remind the casual visitor of the long and inseparable association the city has had with the british .
gradually europeans started setting up business and trade establishments , the moneyed class taking interest in banking and usury .
about 38 km from port blair , this havelock island boasts of virgin beaches , and an unpolluted environment .
the various buildings within this sprawling fort complex represent the assimilation of different cultures , which was the mark of the mughal period .
but it 's still a great place to clamber around , look out at the sea and snap pictures of the shoreline .
the city being an important cantonment during the british raj has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture .
visit the golden temple the sacred sikh sanctuary , marbled , bronzed covered with gold leaf wherein the guru granth sahib - the bible of the sikhs is placed reverently .
rani sipri mosque built in 1514 by a queen of mehmud shah begda .
alwar is nested between clusters of small hills of the aravalli range .
camel safari in rajasthan dates back to 16th century , which was primarily used to carry spices and goods , have now become an important mode of recreation .
babar , the founder of the mughal dynasty in the 15th century , firmly established the popularity of polo .
a new light & sound show is held by the department of delhi tourism every evening. timings and tickets are available from the tourist office .
the punjab kala kendra is the office of the punjab arts council ( punjab lalit kala akademi ) , exhibitions are frequently organized in its large galleries and the council 's permanent collection of contemporary art is also on display here .
jai vilas palace and museum is currently the residence of the royal scindhia family ; the palace is an italianate structure with an imposing durbar hall , decorated with tapestries and antique furniture .
rajasthan is the first choice for the travelers looking for heritage tour & travel in india .
due to their awesome height and spread , garhwal and kumaon , like other areas in the himalayas , offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing , round the year .
hence the grass is permanently green and the leaves of trees grow firmly attached to supple branches . . . this is a work of art of royal luxury and its most striking feature is that the labor of cultivation is suspended above the heads of the spectators .
the trek from osla to harkidoon , is through terraced mountain fields , sylvan meadow sand conifer forests .
laments dr. p. c. ray that never before the karkota period , had kashmir performed such a feat , nor was she able to repeat it in future .
one of the loveliest spot in the himalayas , the kulu valley is known as the valley of gods , evidence of this is the numerous temples .
the descent in to betalghat is equally dramatic .
elections in 1970 brought unidad popular , led by the marxist dr salvador allende , to power .
since the disappearance of krakatau , smaller eruptions have been observed .
the eruption formed three islands ( rakata , panjang , and sertung ) , and caused a 7 km long caldera ( cavity ) to form underneath rakata .
a beautiful artificial lake constructed by maharaja jai singh in 1910 a.c. is a popular spot for outings and picnics .
while trekking as a sporting activity does not require prior training or practice , except that the trekker should be ain good physical condition , there are certain dos and don ts which should be adhered to .
the victoria & albert museum has around 7 miles of corridors and houses a fascinating mix of collections from dresses to church pulpits .
the historic town of bithoor , once famous by the name of bavan ghaton ki nagri , ( city of 52 ghats ) today left with only 29 ghats .
the bus stand in ajmer is located near the rtdc hotel khadim and the railway is further north and most of the hotels are west of the stations .
hirwa van , piparia silvassa is a garden beautiful with roaring waterfalls , misty cascades , rustic stone walls , twin arches , tiny kiosks and springly lawns interspersed with islands of flowers if truly a visitors delight .
arunachal pradesh is the land of the dawn lit mountains is one of the most pristine areas in india .
amidst the tranquility of the splendidly panoramic environs of purana qila , delhi 's historic and legendary past come to life .
if you wish to travel by air the nearest airport from periyar are at kochi ( kochin ) or madurai in tamil nadu .
the gandhi ashwram along the sabarmati river , was once gandhiji s nerve centre for the indian freedom movement .
bengal tiger is the fastest running animal .
during the course of construction , provisions were made to repatriate the nubian inhabitants , and , in a multi-national effort , to relocate the great temple of abu simbel .
as a city it continues to maintain the best of south indian traditions .
indian travel destinations too opens up dalhousie the historical hill station in india to a veritable mix of tourists through its tours to dalhousie .
taj is the pride of india .
each court contains a public gallery open to anyone ( aged 14 or over ) , interested in watching justice in action , and it is well worth a visit .
from kurukshetra came the kernel of hindu belief and doctrine the message of the gita , which lord krishna gave to a doubt-ridden arjuna on the battlefield .
avantivarman died in a temple on the dal lake , when a fatal disease caught him , and in the words of kalhan , listening to the end to the song of the lord ( bhagvatgeeta ) and thinking of the residence of vishnu ( vaikuntha ) he cast off his earthly life with a cheerful mind .
below it is the zenana meena bazaar where the ladies could look at goods without being seen .
some of the commonly visited historical monuments in gwalior , india are the gwalior fort , the sanchi stupas , udayagiri caves , teli ka mandir and tansen 's tomb .
marve , the closest and the quietest are a lovely little fishing village .
these cars are all chauffeur driven ; self driven cars are not available for hire .
st. francis church was originally built by the portuguese in 1510 a.d. .
the indian archaeologists have salvaged the precious ruins from their ancient site , lifting them atop a hill and setting them up in a vihara style museum .
dedicated to the british soldiers who fell in the sindh and afghan campaigns of 1838 and 1843 , this afghan church also known as st. john 's church was built in 1847 .
the beautiful town of sundernagar is known for its shady walks amidst towering trees .
the features of the construction of taj mahal demonstrate the ability of the indian architects to reconcile the illusionary effects created by distance and light .
animals found in the thick forests of uttar pradesh include the endangered royal bengal tiger , panther , snow leopard , jackals , hyenas , sambhar , cheetal , musk deer , chinkara , nilgai , brown bear , mountain goat and elephants .
a new elevator was installed between the second and third levels of the tower in 1983 .
near the police station , chandini chowk the beautiful golden domes of the gurudwara sisgunj immediately strikes your eye .
just beyond the tip of the land lies a huge rock on which is built the vivekananda memorial .
a team of four men was needed for each rivet assembled : one to heat it up , another to hold it in place , a third to shape the head and a fourth to beat it with a sledgehammer .
janki kund is an unusual cave over the mandakini , said to be the place where sita bathed .
the city of persepolis was declared a world heritage site by the unesco in 1979 .
india is a peninsular surrounded by water on three sides namely the indian ocean , bay of bengal and arabian sea .
at the entrance of the fort is magnificent statue of baji prabhu deshpande .
the highest point in darjeeling , our idyllic honeymoon destination in india is , tiger hill , which is 11km away from darjeeling and next door to ghoom .
flora & fauna sub alpine and alpine forests are found in the upper reaches of the himalayas .
a site of many ancient sculptural marvels , mamallapuram was the port city of the pallavas .
allahabad one of the oldest cities of india and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the kumbh and ardh kumbh melas held every twelve and six years respectively .
much of victoria is pretty shabby however , which is surprising considering its proximity to buckingham palace .
october to february is considered to be the best period to visit jaisalmer .
celebration of the gher ghoomer festival before the chamunda devi temple has been a traditional of the local tribes for the last six centuries .
she died in 1003 a. d. and left the throne of kashmir to her family in undisputed succession .
the proper name for these courtrooms is the central criminal court , but they are more commonly known as the old bailey , as is the street in which they stand , after the medieval defenses that were once on the site .
the modhera temple , built by the solanki kins in 1025 ad was dedicated to sury-the sun god .
each of the major tribes has its own unique designs and colors , warm and colorful naga shawls , hand woven shoulder bags , decorative spears , table mats , wood carvings and bamboo works make magnificent souvenirs .
kotagiri is shielded by the doddabetta ranges which receive much of its rain from north west monsoon .
the lake and the cenotaph and the shrine of the hindu reformer swami dayanand , founder of the arya samaj movement in india , can be viewed from here .
the distinctive feature of the muchchal mahavira temple is the statue of lord mahavira with a moustache .
above the tombs is a cairene lamp , the flame of which is supposed to never burn out .
foreigners however are served alcoholic drinks at some hotels upon showing their passports .
for two hundred years , it was the capital of a muslim dynasty that ruled over a populace that was predominantly hindu .
raj ghat is the serene memorial of mahatma gandhi on the banks of yamuna .
the upper reaches of the river beas in the kullu valley are also great for this sport .
places to see around shimla include - mashobra. bekhaltv road , camp sites and the golf course at naldehra , tattapani , the shiv-parvati caves , the kufri slopes , etc .
island water sport is a private water sports operator at port blair providing speed boats , jet skies , tube ride , wake board ride , knee board ride , etc .
besides the sea , sand and the sun , a typical kerala village with paddy fields and coconut groves nearby completes the idyllic picture that the beach paints .
the ultimate goal of the azad hind fauz during the freedom struggle was to capture delhi and established swaraj .
as a result marylebone is chic , subtle , charming and attractive n with the added bonus that it 's slap bang in the middle of the largest city in europe .
habitat the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
the coonoor-mettupalayam road was extended to udagamandalam , covering a distance of about 15 km .
the zoo enjoys an excellent reputation internationally , for successfully breeding black panthers and gharial crocodiles .
these are some of the wares that mount abu as a hill station in india has to offer to its visitors .
8 kilometers from the centre of the city is the nehru planetarium , it shows glimpses into the mysteries and wonders of outer space , and is particularly entertaining for children .
perhaps more than anywhere else , antarctica reminds those who visit it of the awesome ( and savage ) power of nature .
gulmarg boasts of the highest golf course in the world .
while chennai celebrates most major indian festivals , pongal - the harvest festival is tamil nadu 's own festival .
depicting scenes of gods and goddesses , valiant warriors , animals and people , the sculptures and carvings are often shown engaged in acts of love .
this is an organization which is committed to provide quality books for the little ones .
nandi hills is a hill resort near bangalore whose solitude has not been tampered by commercialization .
accommodation at the top end hotels can be expensive but food is cheap .
the city of jaipur is capital to the northern indian state of rajasthan famous for its colorful culture , forts , palaces and lakes .
the summer festivals is held each year during the month of may in the botanical garden and is an added attraction for tourists .
however , since local entrepreneurs and technology giant texas instruments discovered bangalore potential as a high-tech city in the early 1980 's .
there is a strong undercurrent and it is best not to swim out to sea unless you are a proficient swimmer .
jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture , traditional jodhpuri handicrafts , dye textiles , leather shoes , antiques , embroidered shoes carpets , tie & dye sarees , silver jewellery , local handicrafts & textiles , lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from jodhpur .
after the completion of taj mahal each garden within the charbagh was divided into 16 flowerbeds , making a total of 64. it is said that each flowerbed was planted with 400 plants .
ironically , verdi did not complete the work in time and ` ` aida ` ` premiered at the cairo opera a year later .
the predominant species that inhabits the park is the deer , the commonest of them being the dainty chinkara , the indian gazelle and the chital .
it is well worth taking a tour to see the egyptian avenue , which is a striking street cut into the side of the sloping ground , full of vaults , complete with front doors .
special care was taken to maintain the garden , its waterworks as members of the royal family frequented it and stayed in the guesthouse ( mehmankhana ) near it .
many reconstructions such as that by h.f. von erlach depicted the fa ade with a four-column porch which never existed .
the andaman and nicobar islands were shrouded in mystery for centuries because of their inaccessibility .
the house and the fabulous landscaped grounds are free to visit .
the cochin remained a portuguese possession until the dutch conquered it in 1663 .
apart from the geological , zoological , botanical and anthropological galleries , there are outstanding archaeological exhibits .
indian museum , popularly known as jadu ghar ( magic house ) , this is the premier national collection in the subcontinent .
journalist emile goudeau describes the spectacle visiting the construction site at the beginning of 1889 .
jakhu hill looms over shimla town and is the geographical nucleus .
the baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot .
with a varied terrain of wooded hills , it offers abundant opportunities of sighting a variety of wildlife .
boat cruise on pichola lake 4 km long and 3 km broad , surrounded by splendid hills , palaces , temples , bathing ghats and embankments .
a camera is a must to capture on film one of the wonders of the world ! bring light cotton clothes , comfortable sandals and a hat in the summer and in winter , some light woolen clothes ; evenings get a bit chilly .
his ministers were gorgeously dressed , wore earrings and head dresses , previously reserved for the members of ruling families only .
the mythological traditions supported fully by the research of geologists confirm that the valley originally was a huge lake called ` ` satisar ` ` , ( the land of goddess sati , consort of lord shiva ) and its waters were blocked near baramulla ( ancient varahmulla .
nearest underground stops : chancery lane , farringdon , russell square .
the famous ooty lake that serpentine stretch of water that has deteriorated in to a sewer-was sullivan s creation too .
konark also known as ` ` arka-tirtha ` ` is famous for its majestic temple of the sun god .
in winter , light woolens would be required as the evenings get chilly .
trevor 's tank is popular for bird watching with various species of birds like pigeons , peacocks and partridges .
the most popular stretch for river rafting is on the ganges , near rishikesh in uttaranchal .
during the annual feast ( 5th , 6th and 7th of may ) pilgrims from all parts of south india , irrespective of caste and creed , visit the church and seek the blessings of the saint .
the delhi zoo is located near the purana qila on the delhi-mathura road .
there were 127 columns in total , aligned orthogonally over the whole platform area , except for the central cella or house of the goddess .
presently man mahal is covered to rtdc sarvour tourist bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers .
strangely , despite being catholic , the head of the order is the queen ( who is also supreme head of the church of england .
though the revolt did not reach its desired conclusion , delhi became a thorn in the eyes of the british .
over the past three and a half centuries , the small fishing village has grown into a bustling metropolis which is especially known for its spaciousness which is lacking in other indian cities .
the dargah of the sufi saint , who is believed to have blessed akbar with a son , is also within the fort .
the chequered history of allahabad with its religious , cultural and historical ethos also gave rise to several renowned scholars , poets , writers , thinkers , statesmen and leaders .
the huge , carved doors of the cabinet room are made of pure sandalwood .
surrounding the market are hundreds of shops , bars and restaurants which make the area buzz with vitality .
great piles of straw and dung used to build signal fires have been found during excavations .
from kumarghat you can take a bus to agartala .
ranthambore national park has a congenial habitat for the stately sambar , the largest of all asiatic deer .
in the year 272 b.c. , the kalinga-nippon-buddha sangha established a peace pagoda ( shanti stupa ) at dhauli along with the construction of a monastery called saddharma. ` ` ashoka the great ` ` transformed totally and changed his mind in favor of spiritual conquests .
uribe immediately declared a partial state of emergency , allowing him to impose security measures by decree .
the gwalior fort is about 1000 years old and is perhaps one of the most imposing monuments in the gwalior city .
the camel festival is held in the month of january every year and is organized by the department of tourism , art & culture , of rajasthan .
ulsoor lake is an ideal place for sightseeing , boating and shopping .
ranthambhore also facilitates jeep safari to explore the unexplored treasures of the forest , as it is the best means to explore the royal tiger .
the building is illuminated on sunday evenings .
hearing the suffering of the people , a great saint of our country , kashyap by name , came to the rescue of the people here .
almost 500 years on , the impact of spanish conquistadores can be seen in the tall , ornate churches that crown the hillsides and plazas of mexico s cities and whitewashed walls of haciendas .
the kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees .
the dutch remained in undisputed control until the end of the 18th century when the outbreak of the napoleonic wars brought a period of turmoil during which the territory changed hands several times between the dutch , british and french .
from the top of the chanmundi hill one can have a panoramic view of mysore .
glorious 18th and 19th century buildings abound housing many artistic and literary names just as they have done through the centuries .
while the temple of jamwa mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities , its beautiful landscape , especially during in oils pools , makes it an idyllic picnic spot .
the marwar festival is held every year in memory of the heroes of rajasthan .
the site was chosen near the capital , agra on the southwest bank of the river yamuna .
one needs prior permission form the secretary to visit the palace .
and the rapids of snow-fed rivers are ideal for white water rafting .
there are 2 sailings in a month each from calcutta and madras to port blair & vice versa .
extending in a linear arrangement , the 34 caves contain buddhist chaityas , or halls of worship , and viharas , or monasteries , hindu and jain temples .
one can take up several means of transportation like taxis , cycle-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws to move from one place to another in bharatpur .
hyderabad has a rich cultural heritage , which encloses within itself an amalgam of various religious and cultural communities .
jantar mantar - few minutes walk from connaught place is is a strange collection of solomon coloured structures .
visit the art gallery ; drive upto chamundi hill to see chamundeshwari temple and a panoramic view of mysore. on the way back , see the nandi bull .
jaipur , on western railway 's meter gauge and broad gauge network , is very well connected with train services from many parts of the country .
the tourist complex ( phone 05619 2490 ) offers clean and affordable accommodation with reasonable food .
over the years hundreds of celebrities have made their way to madame tussaud 's 'stage door ' to be received in the private studio where the sculptor makes precise measurements and photographs the subject 's head from every possible angle .
his tenure ended with another military take-over. .
the international tech park is meticulously designed and builtd to suit the requirements of international hi-tech companies in the field of information technology , software development , electronics , telecommunication , research and development , financial services and other non-polluting hi-tech industries .
a fascinating area just to the north of the city which is an alluring mix of scruffy old character and trendy new vibrancy .
the birla planetarium is also quite a crowd-puller. .
himalayas are the world 's top-notch mountain chain crowning with snow-capped peaks of 26 , 000 feet in height .
ellora known as verul in ancient times , it has continuously attracted pilgrims through the centuries .
hawa mahal jaipur the jantar mantar is an astronomical observatory located at jaipur , india was constructed by maharaja sawai jai singh ii in the year 1716 .
he has made his name immortal by founding the city of praverseinpura ( modern city of srinagar ) , the summer capital of the state at present .
the park can probably boast of the highest density of the paradise fly-catchers. .
upper bhavani is about 10 kms. from korakundah and about 20 kms. from avalanche .
it is probably the ugliest building in london , although the new british library may be another contender for the title .
but for the inauguration celebration , the gold lighting will shut down for ten minutes allowing the glowing diamond-sparkles to perform a new magical presentation sure to enthrall the enthusiastic crowds below .
a visit to kolhapur was not complete without a trip to this ordinary temple .
it also broke a taboo , culminating in court decisions which stripped him of his immunity from prosecution although the former ruler has not been prosecuted yet .
long serpentine boats rowed in rhythmic frenzy by multiple sets of shining able bodied malayali men compete for this prized trophy .
the fort also has miran saheb ki dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter .
trekking is an option open only to the serious naturalist .
the industrial units , some 1700 of them in and around agra , have been in the eye of a storm in recent times .
the mall as we see it today was designed at the beginning of this century by the architect aston webb , who also designed the victoria monument and rebuilt the front of buckingham palace around the same time .
the most notable place of worship in the district of bilaspur is the temple of shri naina devi ji .
in delhi one can see , the mingling of many cultures , languages , tradition and peoples into one united nation .
dhauli hill is on the bank of the river daya , about 8 kms south of bhubaneshwar .
a fine array of places to eat and drink offers history , as at the trafalgar tavern in park row , contemporary chill at time , in college approach , or traditional at the admiral hardy , also in college approach .
in 1998 , pinochet officially retired and chile has begun to come to terms with his legacy .
the list of beers and lagers is equally interesting ; there are about two dozen to choose from .
the maiden name of mumtaz mahal was arjumand banu begum , prince khurram had been married twice before he met and married mumtaz mahal .
although the foundation of the temple dates back to the seventh century bc , the structure that earned a spot in the list of wonders was built around 550 bc .
all this combined with rich historical and archaeological past and enduring indigenous cultures .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam .
the london dungeon - deep in the heart of london , buried beneath the paving stones of historic southward , lies the world 's most chillingly famous horror attraction .
housed inside a majestic palladian villa , remodeled by robert adam , is an internationally recognized collection of paintings including the ' guitar player ' by vermeer and rembrandt 's 'self portrait ? .
the temple housed many works of art , including four ancient bronze statues of amazons sculpted by the finest artists at the time .
bridges , and in particular railway bridges , were his favorite field of work , but he also won renown for his metal structural work and industrial installations .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
india has preserved vast tracts of forests and habitats in its 80 national parks and 441 wildlife sanctuaries .
aizwal is connected by national highway no. 54 to the rest of the country via silchar .
the ripples formed by the dunes create a perfect location for the photographers to shoot .
the city has a natural harbor and a beach stretching endlessly into the horizon , against a backdrop of low hills and hidden creeks .
this place was used for staying of royal family until the new palace was built and it was used for entertainment afterwards .
later the tower was also celebrated by le douanier rousseau , signac , bonnard , utrillo , gromaire , vuillard , dufy and chagall .
regular passenger ship services viz. m.v. akbar and m.v. nicobar and m.v. nancowry are plying between port blair and chennai ( 1190 kms ) , calcutta ( 1255 kms ) , vizag ( 1200 kms .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
due to its advantageous location , cochin has experience the affluence from the sea borne trade and at the same time enjoyed various cultural influences brought in by different traders and visitors since the ancient times .
tezpur , known as soniput ( city of blood ) of puranic fame , is associated with the legend of princess usha , the daughter of king bana and prince anirudha , the grandson of lord krishna for their eternal love and romance .
konkan railway trains from cst stop at pen , 28 km from alibag , from where you can take a bus , auto rickshaw or taxi .
delhi has seen the death of many empires and resisted bloody attempts to eliminate her .
described by the indian classical poet tagore as a ` ` tear on the face of eternity ` ` , the taj mahal is undoubtedly the zenith of moghul architecture and quite simply one of the world 's most marvellous buildings .
camping sites provide all the magic of the jungle , the nocturnal sounds , bright lit skies and tales around a crackling camp fire , all make a heady cocktail .
4 km away is the built in bengali hut style architecture in 1501 , a ` shaktipeeth ( power of the female goddess .
starting at rishikesh , this 10 day long trek , passes through pipalkoti , kalpeshwar , bansi narain , godiyala , rudranath , and sagar , and ends at gopeshwar .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
it is rare to come across a place that welcomes the 21st century with an ' adaab ' .
sprawling on the banks of the river yamuna , delhi , bahai temple the capital of india , typifies the soul of the country .
however , the windfall was largely squandered and ecuador has suffered persistent economic difficulties ever since .
changing money anywhere in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
sekta mound , locally known as the ` ` sekta kei ` ` is a protected archaeological site , located at sekta village , about 16 kms from imphal .
also known as indralika , this 2 , 953 meters ( 9 , 687 ft . ) high snow dove jagatsukh , has a legend around it , with arjuna .
apart from its jain temples gujarat s major attraction include the last asian lions , in the gir forest and the fascination indo-saracenic architecture of ahmedabad .
palace on wheels is a journey worthy of kings .
as the britishers shifted their capital from calcutta to delhi , all the activities during the freedom struggle were directed towards delhi .
inside , the original ceilings had frescoes in blue and gold .
itmaduddaulah is the tomb of mirza ghyas beg , a persian who had obtained service in akbar court .
the palace of nana sahib was reduced to rubble by the british in 1857 and the only traces remaining of it are some large well heads and broken palace walls .
a tour to dehradun would reveal that it is located in the picturesque shivalik valley and also happens to be the capital of uttaranachal state , which abounds in other hill stations in india .
in karnataka there are chamundi hills .
it culminated in 1889 with the eiffel tower .
although it is no longer the capital of gujarat , ahmedabad remains the second largest industrial city in western india .
khajjiar is a modest grass-covered meadow located in the enchanting valley of chamba .
the foundation of the temple was rectangular in form , similar to most temples at the time .
in the heart of northern india watered by the two sacred rivers of ganga and yamuna lies the city of allahabad .
instances from jewish history and the hardship the jews underwent are depicted through paintings .
visitors can keep themselves busy by going to the tribal villages , seeing desert wild life , witnessing the craft of local craftsman .
more recently the remains of a roman amphitheatre were discovered here during redevelopment work in 1987 .
jaigarh fort s impressive water supply and storage system as well as the museum are worth seeing .
according to legend , this is the spot where the sage bharadwaj had his ashram , where thousands of students lived and studied under him lord rama , the hero of the epic ramayana also visited the ashram .
shikara is a gondola type light rowing boat .
the town is blessed with exotic natural beauty and is famous for its handicrafts .
these are the ajmer sharif , anasagar lake , dargah of miran syed husain , jama al-tamish and the taragarh fort .
the mehfil khana or the main hall of the dargah is the place where qawwalis are sung throughout the year .
the statues were carved by four greek sculptors : bryaxis , leochares , scopas , and timotheus , each responsible for one side .
the state of jammu and kashmir is a region of widely varying people and geography .
the capital houses the rajbhawan ; the official residence of the governor has also many worth visiting places in and around itanagar .
offering camel , jeep , and horse safaris , accommodation in tents .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
the site india travel destinations gives details of tours to historical monuments in different parts of india .
he had witnessed the founding of alexandria , and established his capital there. off of the city 's coast lies a small island : pharos .
the historic buland darwaza , which is 85 feet high , was constructed by sultan ghayasuddin of mandu .
he was granted a ` ` firman ` ` or decree by the khedive said of egypt to run the canal for 99 years after completion .
today yamuna flows almost a kilometer away from the fort and the moat has dried up .
please check the current safety status when you plan a visit and bear in mind that many of the sights recommended here have been either destroyed or are out of bounds .
kangra one of himachal 's beautiful valleys , rolls down the southern edge of the magnificent dhauladhar range in gentle slopes covered with forests of pine , orchards , green tea gardens and terraced fields .
scenic waterfalls law s falls and st. catherine falls and fine vantage points with breathtaking views and amusing names like lamb s rock , dolphin s nose and lady canning s seat dre popular picnic spots .
however , he is by no means the only famous name to be associated with hampstead : the borough has more blue plaques than any other ! famous residents have included a.a. .
while in jaisalmer , it is difficult to resist the charm of a camel safari , the most interesting way to explore the desert around .
and from a linguistic standpoint , it gave its name - - pharos - - to all the lighthouses in the world .
this region acquired an independent political status in january 20 , 1972 when it was declared as a union territory under the name of arunachal pradesh .
it is believed that the gate of all nations and the throne hall were used in new year 's celebrations when delegates presented the annual tribute to the persian king .
the literary tradition is kept up : the current owner is playwright christopher hampton , best known for his screen adaptation of dangerous liaisons .
the power station 's other claim to fame is that it appeared on the front cover of the pink floyd album ` ` animals ` ` with a pig flying overhead .
during the spring seasons of february and march , when the garden is in full bloom people are allowed inside .
although portrayed as the latest phase of the ' war on drugs ' , it is clear that the programmed is essentially political and strategic the objective is to destroy farc ( revolutionary armed forces of colombia ) and its allies .
khajuraho is connected by regular bus services with mahoba , harpalpur , satna , jhansi , gwalior , agra , jabalpur & bhopal .
this massive and imposing architectural wonder is a must visit during your tours to historical monuments in jaipur , india .
thadlaskein basically a lake , it is a popular picnic spot .
you have to remove your shoes before getting on to the platform socks , or cloth shoes available at the base , should be kept on since the marble gets very hot during the day .
the tourist entry is through the amar singh gate , which was used by general lake and his army to capture the fort .
bada danda is the grand road and it extends from the jagannath temple to the gundicha temple , and is the scene of the great festival of the chariots or ratha yatra .
gir national park is also home to one of the largest leopard populations in any park in india .
balance also determines the value of strength by how much energy you spend actually climbing sheer rock faces , ideal for rock climbing , can be found in many areas .
a walk into the forest with them is an experience into itself , as you come to learn about their customs , ethnicity and legends .
the pieces were hauled up by steam cranes , which themselves climbed up the tower as they went along using the runners to be used for the tower 's lifts .
regular luxury buses are available round the clock and special trains like the shatabadi express and intercity express .
it marks the site where mahatma gandhi was cremated after his assassination .
constructed with stone and marble , jantar mantar s complex instruments whose setting and shapes are precisely and scientifically designed represent the high points of medieval indian astronomy .
it is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments .
after various attempts at negotiation and mediation had failed , a british task force , which had been dispatched at the start of the crisis , was ordered to continue its journey and engage the argentines .
guwahati is the commercial capital of the north east .
one can enjoy boating on the shimmering blue waters and in leisure one can enjoy fishing .
the slush becomes all pervasive , and so do the green and the bugs .
first of all he set himself to finding a practical application for the tower , which had only been built to stand for twenty years .
the ruling was later to be annulled by the highest appeal court , the cour de cassation , liberating him of all obligations concerning the accusations , which put an end to any further court action against him .
majestic sand dunes in the thar desert is a unique offering of rajasthan that is away from the rajasthan colorful culture , wildlife , historical monuments , forts , gardens and lakes .
the picturesque kangra valley has several spots that offer mahaseer river carp .
mandu , originally the capital of the hindu parmar kings in the 13th century which was later captured by the sultans of malwa .
gaitore is the final resting place of the maharajas of jaipur and is located just off the jaipur amber road .
fatehpur sikri a city of yesteryear today lost in the mists of time .
shopping can be both an exciting as well as taxing experience in agra .
the road to kanyakumari is broad , airy and tree-lined , since it is a national highway , it is well-kept. .
the buddhist circuit is a pilgrim 's passage through the places immortalized by the enlightened one. the highlight of your journey will be the holy bodhi tree at bodhgaya under which he gained enlightenment .
the first television trials to use the tower date back to 1921 , and the first regular broadcasts started in 1935 .
the commons introduces new legislation but the lords acts as a kind of quality control department and debates the issues again , before they are made law .
every year bharatpur waits with bated breath for the arrival of the siberian cranes .
just as complex is peru 's topography : divided into the three main geographical zones of costa ( coast ) ; sierra ( mountains ) ; and selva ( rainforest ) .
eighteen-year old venkatachalam subramaniam iyer from irinjalakuda in kerala , armed with his ssc and shorthand and typewriting certificates , arrived in dadar station , seeking a future in the city .
situated on the banks of the ganga , bithoor is of considerable historical and religious importance .
but as reverend philip mulley suggests , his real legacy goes well beyond a building that endures here or a crumbling grave that survives there .
the temples in this hill station in india boast of immense architectural beauty and finesse among all other hill stations in india .
mathura , a quiet town on the river yamuna was transformed into a place of faith after lord krishna was born here .
as a much sought after honeymoon destination in india , darjeeling is home to a multifarious variety of scenic places and natural beauty .
a flower show along with an exhibition of rare plant species is held every year in the month of may at botanical garden .
the colonnade supported a pyramid roof which was in turn decorated with statues .
later on col james edward corbett became a visionary conservationist and author .
people are the essence of the country , and while brazil is home to a multitude of ethnic groups of varying economic status , there are some characteristics that everyone shares - energy and passion .
a few of the most important kashmir missionaries were kumarjiva , yasa , vima laksha , sanghbuti , gautam sangha , buddviyasa , buddhijiva , gunavarman , dharamputra and shyama bhata .
another 20 kms drive from khanvel is dudhni where the large waterfront of river damanganga provides breathtaking view of the water spread of madhuban dam .
on the east bank of the river euphrates , about 50 km south of baghdad , iraq .
to construct a tomb in one s lifetime was a tartary custom which the mughals followed religiously .
the famous bikaneri bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in bikaner .
the most celebrated kings after raja wodeyar who contributed to the cultural heritage of mysore are ranadhira kanthirava narasaraja wodeyar ( 1638 - 1659 ad ) , chikka devaraja wodeyar ( 1673 - 1704 ad ) , mummadi krishnaraja wodeyar ( iii ) ( 1799 - 1868 ad ) , nalvadi krishnaraja wodeyar ( iv ) ( 1902 - 1940 ad ) and jayachamarajendra wodeyar from 1940 till the establishment of the republic of india .
visit the temple of shri manges a beautiful temple dedicated to lord shiva , located on a hillock at priot - in ponda taluka .
the total height of the building including the foundation base was about 117 m ( 384 ft ) , equivalent to a 40-story modern building .
the brick and granite work was enlarged and sophisticated designs were added .
however , there can be few squares that can equal eaton square in providing accommodation for no less than three james bonds ! like mayfair , belgravia is almost entirely owned by the duke of westminster , britain 's richest man .
' all through this hour , lord by my guide , that by thy power , no foot shall slide . ' the clock plays the first line at a quarter past the hour , the first and second lines on the half hour , three lines at a quarter to and the whole lot on the hour .
despite being relatively central , fulham is also the home to two professional football clubs n fulham and chelsea .
indian airlines and jet airways have convenient connections to cochin from delhi , mumbai as well as other important south indian cities .
the temple itself is dedicated to shiva and is a natural cave caved out of a monolithic stone .
built by maharana kumbha in the 15th century , the fort extends over 12 km and encloses many temples , gardens and palaces .
the last sparkle at 1 am will conclude the daily performance with a special finale : ten minutes of sparkling lights with the gold lighting system shut down .
when the colossus was finished , it stood about 33 m ( 110 ft ) high .
the following countries all have their own sections in the world travel guide .
the present splendid dome over the mazar was constructed by emperor shahjahan , who also constructed the jama masjid in the year 1638 .
the earliest reference to delhi as a settlement is made in the hindu epic , mahabharata , which states that the pandavas founded a city called indraprastha .
thakur onkar singh , 17th direct descendant of prince karamasi , the current owner and chief added a regal wing in the 1940`s for himself .
the lighting system in place since 1985 relies on 352 sodium yellow-orange tint lamps , placed on the inside of the tower structure for an extremely effective way of flaunting the tower 's intricate beauty .
when you stand on this rock and face the east , the waves of the bay of bengal lap your feet .
sisodiya rani-ka-bagh was built by sawai jai singh ii for his sisodiya queen .
panhala is the only fort in maharashtra where you can roam within its walls in your vehicle .
at ajanta , the paintings were done on dry wall .
in northern india , corbett national musk deerpark and dudhwa national park in uttar pradesh , kanha national park and bandhavgarh national park in madhya pradesh and rajasthan 's ranthambore national park and sariska tiger reserve , are all the home of the magnificent predator-the tiger .
the aurangabad caves are buddhist and are divided into two groups by the archaeological survey of india as the western and eastern caves .
indian travel destinations incorporates information on a packaged tour to coorg coupled with the needed information for tourists to avail of the golden opportunity to travel and discover for themselves the delights of this hill station in india .
it is a veritable treasure house of buddhist sculptures .
since cut flowers are in great demand in foreign countries , floriculture should find a prominent place in schemes to augment the income of cultivators .
also called the ` ` manchester of the east ` ` , today , ahmedabad is one of the most highly industrialized cities of india .
this palace is built around a place called ` ` thotti ` ` which is a large open space to the east of round floor there is huge elephant door .
the garhwal mandal vikas nigam has a full fledged mountaineering and trekking division , based at muniki reti , rishikesh for information about peak booking fees , inner line restrictions , import of equipment , camera permits , insurance , medical attention , and evacuation procedures , contact the indian mountaineering foundation based at delhi .
mexico s largely oil-based economy brought mexico to the verge of bankruptey in the 1970s / 80s due to corruption and mismanagement , a collapse of oil prices , and political crisis .
the magnificent temple of zeus was designed by the architect libon and was built around 450 bc .
parts of the territory which is now uruguay were settled by the spanish in the 1620s and the portuguese in the 1680s ; as a result , uruguay became a major bone of contention between these rival european powers .
treks up to 4900 mts need no permission , and can be undertaken on tourist visas .
the great mythological war believed to have been fought between hari ( lord krishna ) and hara ( lord shiva ) and as a result the whole city was said to have been drenched in blood , hence the name .
recent studies suggest that it was erected either on the eastern promontory of the mandraki harbor , or even further inland .
places to see in ajmer at the foot of a barren hill , is situated india 's most important pilgrimage centre for people from all faith .
lallgarh palace was the most completely integrated example of indo-saracenic architecture .
better known as flora fountain after the beautiful stone fountain at its centre , hutatma chowk is the established business centre of mumbai .
the lamps are cooled to prevent overheating and a heating system is activated when the temperatures drop below zero centigrade whilst the lights are off .
despite several attempts to conquer their capital , the nabataeans remained practically independent until the defeat of antony and cleopatra and the reunification of the roman empire by octavian in 31 bc .
the bus from morbi races across the causeway some six feet above the glutinous element and you have to admit that there is nothing so glorious for cooking the blood as mud stretching as far as the eye can see .
for this reason due to the requirement of a palace , a new palace was built in hindu architectural style during 1800-1803. .
nearly all of marylebone is owned by lord howard de walden who has been careful to ensure that old residents have not been priced out of their houses and that the area has not become overtly commercial .
indeed , the chandela temples form the centre of khajuraho with its myriad graceful forms that continue to evoke shock , surprise , awe and admiration among thousand other feelings .
marx is buried in the eastern side .
mumbai is the headquarters of the central and western railways .
throbbing in the heart of the thar , in burnished sandstone , jaisalmer is an intricately molded wonderland - a city of gilded magic .
the first one , made of wood , was built by the romans , following their invasion in 43ad .
for 16 centuries , the mausoleum remained in good condition until an earthquake caused some damage to the roof and colonnade .
chennai is the epitome of tradition , culture and life-style of southern india , but like the rest of india , chennai has over the years , developed its share of urban style and modernity .
the lalgarh palace was built by maharaja ganga singh and is situated 3 km north of bikaner city .
french guiana was finally given french overseas department status in 1946 , under which the territory effectively became an integral part of the french nation .
but traces of earlier inhabitants remain in the remarkable temples and pyramids at palenque and teotihuacan , and in the traditions of dozens of indigenous cultures .
changing money anywhere but at accredited bureau is illegal .
arunachal pradesh is a dreamy , misty land nestled in the middle of ancient tribal lands and cultures .
this palace is now the famous cftri ( central food technology and research institute ) and is in very good condition .
by train the city has six railway stations of which agra cantonment is the largest .
with a rich history , hyderabad boasts of some fine examples of qutub shahi architecture - the jami masjid , the mecca masjid , toli masjid and of course , the impressive symbol of hyderabad , the charminar .
entertainment is limited to cinema halls that screen hindi and bengali movies .
the city is divided into four major work areas , in the north , the capital complex , consisting of the secretariat , legislative assembly and high court , with the hills as a background dominating the city .
bombay , or mumbai as it is now called , is the commercial capital of india , a city of entrepreneurs , concrete towers , clubs and discos , cricket , bollywood and more .
if you re lucky , you might just spot a 1935 jaguar convertible of even an 1898 humbrette .
you will find many couples sitting on it with the taj mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit .
a rich collection of the indian armory is among other exhibits of the museum behind the city palace is an artificial lake built in 1815 a.d. by maharaj vinay singh with few temples along its banks .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
when parliament is sitting a light is turned on above the clock tower that houses big ben , and a flag is flown from victoria tower ( the tall tower at the opposite end from big ben 's clock tower .
these rock cut sites are dated to the 8 th or 9 th centuries .
ajmer was also favorite residence for the great mughals .
a network of rivers runs through the state , with a wide variety of fresh water fish like mahaseer , hilsa , saul , rohu , mirgal , katla and trout .
build in south indian style the temple complex is spread over a large area with beautiful lawns and gardens .
it is for no small reason that kullu manali has earned the sobriquet of , ` ` valley of gods .
manali is one of the most beautiful and popular hill stations known for lush and fresh scenic beauty .
this portrayal of sensuality and erotica , while awing some and shocking others , not once is vulgar .
as the slopes have been devoted to tea , vegetables have come to be cultivated in low-lying areas and swamps .
one of the finest examples of high victorial gothic architecture , it is the headquarters of the central railways and is one of the finest railway stations in the world .
built of red sandstone , the mina rates are inlaid with white marble polygonal patterns ; the pleasing proportions & profuse surface ornamentation makes the gateways very impressive .
the palace is built in 36 acres surrounded by gardens .
formed with the building of a dam in 1895 , this reservoir meanders around the contours of the wooded hills , providing a perennial source of water for the local wildlife .
border disputes have also arisen ; the most serious of these was with ecuador over access to the amazonian river system and control of the potentially mineral-rich condor mountain range .
situated in the north eastern corner of the country , nagaland has assam , arunachal pradesh and manipur on its domestic borders , while myanmar shares with it , an international boundary on the east .
the tropical state of orissa lies along the eastern seaboard of india , south of bengal .
the rabindra gallery contains paintings and manuscripts of the great man of letters .
greek gods and mythical figures also adorned the scene : apollo , artemis , and niobe 's children .
a camel safari in india , thus carried out can be a thrilling experience for the uninitiated one as the wind swept tracts of sand coupled with the beatific sunsets and sunrises on the offing , are a treat to watch and are a once in a lifetime opportunity .
chandni chowk is located opposite the red fort .
by road if you are driving around india , the city is extremely well connected from all directions .
designed by lt samuel russel , the british residency of hyderabad was built in 1806 and is one of the best examples of european architecture in india .
the sewa or the self employed women 's association offers hand printed fabrics and other textiles made by women s cooperatives .
three stocks of populaces / tribes to be more precise inhabit arunachal pradesh , a prominent hill station in india .
it was opened as a museum in 1923 and has three main sections : art , archaeology and natural history .
it was rather a symbol of unity of the people who inhabited that beautiful mediterranean island - - rhodes .
the old delhi or the walled city served as the capital for many emperors .
jahangir mahal s strong lines are counter - balanced by delicate chhatris and trellis work .
the economy of the city depends on several industries including handicraft , textiles & some metal based industries .
the location of fatehpur sikri was also appropriate for discussions and deliberations that the emperor had with religious leaders , statesmen , writers and philosophers .
the flower show is the pride of the festival .
leather , wool and silk carpets , stone sculptures , jewellery and inlay work are the major revenue earners .
thenzawl is a picturesque hill station and also worth a visit .
on all the ten days , the mysore palace is illuminated and renowned musicians of the state and outside give performances in front of the palace .
by the time the spanish arrived in the late15th century , the surinen ( the original inhabitants of surinam ) had been driven out by other amerindian groups .
in 1937 , andr granet added colored lighting to the latticework handrails for the international exposition of arts and techniques .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
situated on the banks of the river yamuna , the taj mahal stands at the northern end of formal gardens .
it is located on a 17km stretch of the coramandel coast .
but those among them which can be identified justly by their extant ruins , the great fame which lalitaditya enjoyed as a builder .
the third week of march every year , aurangabad dons the mantle of host and gears up for an ellora festival of music and dance .
nizam-ud-din shrine - the tomb of the famous sufi saint nizam-ud-din auliya is built on the way from humayun 's tomb .
they offer what the real travelers is looking for vast open spaces , undisturbed solitude and the prospect to do something really different .
prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in brahmanical ( vedic ) and buddhist literatures .
the birth place of lord krishna , ` ` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations ` ` - mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
known for their fine architecture , elegant speech and intellectual pursuits , they were the ancestors of the famous aztecs .
the new government appealed to the revolutionary leader , simon bolivar , for assistance , which proceeded to defeat the royalists at the battle of ayacucho in december 1824 , after which he became head of state .
on your tour to periyar you can see the rich bird life including the giant hornbill , cormorant , darter , osprey , and racket-tailed drongo .
haldeghati is the place where the famous battle between rana pratap and the massive forces of the mughal emperor akbar was fought in 1576 ad .
mandawa castle , one of the finest castles of rajasthan is now a beautiful hotel .
just 125 kms along the coastline from chorwad lays ahmedpur mandvi , unusual beach resort designed as a traditional ethnic saurashtrian village .
in 1519 , a spaniard named hernan cortes arrived from cuba with a 550-strong crew .
small and not given to the excesses that other museums are given to , the exhibits here include a 500-year-old chain mail suit , an 800-year-old paithani sari and a copy of the koran hand painted by aurangzeb .
ahmedabad offers a culinary experience par excellence to first time visitors at the open-air village restaurant outside the city .
gujarat can really boast of a rich variety of wild and rare fauna .
dutch palace , also known as the mattancherry palace , was built by the poruguese and presented to the cochin raja in 1555 a.d. .
over the years , it fell again into disrepair , and was completely abandoned upon the discovery of the trade route around africa .
there are two tourist offices , one of up tourism near clarks shiraz hotel ( 64 taj road , ph ( 0562 ) 360517 ) and the other of the government of india ( 191 the mall , ph ( 0562 ) 363377 .
akbar , king at 14 , began consolidating his empire and , as an assertion of his power built the fort in agra between 1565 and 1571 , coeval with the construction of humayun 's tomb in delhi .
shimla airport is 23 kms from the city and is served by indian airlines flights during the summer months .
airport coach ( non-air-conditioned ) is operated by delhi transport corporation ( via connaught place and railway stations ) to inter state bus terminus ( isbt ) , kashmiri gate and by ex-servicemen s air link .
agra is well connected by air with khajuraho , varanasi , and delhi .
the nilgiris range which is the junction of the eastern and western ghats , was christened neelagiri by its inhabitants 850 years ago , because of the blue haze of the clouds enveloping its slopes. originally , it was inhabited by todas , irulas , kurumbas , panias and badagas .
the parliament consists of three halls - lok sabha , rajya sabha and the central hall .
the bijli mahadev temple is an important tourist site that you must visit during your historical tours to kullu in himachal pradesh , india .
your journey promises joy , serenity and a deeper understanding of one of the greatest thinkers of india .
when st paul visited ephesus to preach christianity in the first century ad , he was confronted by the artemis ' cult who had no plans to abandon their goddess .
located about 55 km by road from agra on the jaipur highway , the town of bharatpur is an eastern gateway to rajasthan .
one of the most challenging motor rallies is the himalayan car rally .
even in their present state of decay , they command admiration both by their imposing dimensions , and by the beauty of their architectural design and decoration .
the oriyas , 25 % of whom are indigenous tribal peoples , are particularly friendly and hospitable .
it is the home of the great indian one horned rhinoceros ( unicornis ) .
chandni chowk was the pulse of mughal delhi s commercial life and was designed by jahanara begum , the favourite daughter of shah jahan in 1648 .
along with the modern day pubs , discos and hangouts , one can still see remnants of the older bangalore .
once known as puri later gharapuri this island was the proud capital of a powerful coastal kingdom and the great cave shrine in praise of shiva , excavated in the sixth century , added to the ruling dynasty .
shopping is a delightful experience in pushkar fair ; wide range of handicraft items is displayed on roadside stalls .
the deep forest area between bushes and bamboos where one always feel the absence of sunlight , wide and thick forests , between high mountains cool flowing streams , sky-touching mountains , caves , high waterfalls , and in the valleys the spread of greenery and in between this , the huts made by bamboo sticks , the fearless life style of the tribal and their culture , one 's heart and mind would be filled with new wonders and pleasure .
on makar sankranti ( 13/14/15 january ) every year , the city is at its colorful best when thousands and thousands of kites of every shape , size and color soar into the sky as it celebrates the international kite festival .
the whole of karnataka came under the control of the british in the beginning of the 19th century and the new state was named as new mysore and the maharaja of mysore was appointed governor by independent india .
ajanta finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
loktak lake & sendra island is a saucer shaped fresh water lake which attracts many species of birds .
praversein ruled ably for 60 years and is supposed to have directly ascended to heaven while worshipping lord shiva in his temple ' pravesha ' now standing in ruins near hari-parbat fort .
` ` the hanging garden has plants cultivated above ground level , and the roots of the trees are embedded in an upper terrace rather than in the earth .
bassein fortified city , built by the portuguese , separates greater mumbai from the indian mainland .
here one can find historical fort called ita fort , dating back to the 14-15 centuries , after which it is names .
shimla the summer capital of india before independence is now the capital of himachal pradesh .
this allahabad city was the heart of the indian freedom movement against the british rule with anand bhawan being the epicenter ; it was in allahabad the mahatama gandhi proposed his program of nonviolent resistance to liberate india .
on a hillock to the north is the shrine of lord dattatraya , the three heads representing brahma , vishnu and maheshwara .
jeep safari in india is on aspect of adventure tourism in india which entails an immense amount of outdoor roving on land .
gokul attained importance during the time of vallabhacharya ( 1479-1531 ) when it became a major centre of the bhakti cult .
the fivestoreyed palace is one of the prominent buildings in the fort .
amar singh gate , agra fort akbar , the greatest empire-builder of the mughals , commissioned the agra fort in 1565 .
most of these communities are ethnically similar , having derived from original mongoloid stock but their geographical isolation from each other has brought amongst them certain distinctive characteristics in language , dress and customs .
and when the temple was again destroyed by the goths in ad 262 , the ephesians vowed to rebuild .
the chaugan is the heart and hub centre of all activities in chamba .
angkor wat features the longest continuous bas-relief in the world , which runs along the outer gallery walls , narrating stories from hindu mythology .
with the mix of people in bangalore , it is common to see christmas and ramzan celebrated with equal vigour .
here you will find a collection of the world 's finest museums - all virtually next to each other ! you ' ll need more than a day to see them all , so choose carefully .
the age old art of dyes and colours hold the centre of attraction .
the inexpensive eating places are in taj gang , around the taj mahal .
set like a jewel in a courtyard of pink sandstone is the finest building here , the marble tomb of salim chisti enclosed by finely carved , lacy marble screens .
guyana 's attractions range from the 19th-century stilted wooden houses of its capital , georgetown , to the awesome natural splendors of the towering kaieteur falls along the potaro river , five times the height of niagara .
people walked , rode on horseback or traveled by ox - wagon from the transvaal along what was then called the hunters road ( now the border between botswana and zimbabwe ) and on reaching george westbeech 's store at pandamatenga left their animals there , safe from the lethal bite of the tsetse fly , and walked the remaining 80 kilometers , due north to the falls .
in philosophy , religion , medicine , astronomy , literature , engineering , sculpture , architecture , painting , music , dancing , and in many other walks of life the progress of kashmiries during the ancient times is astonishing and striking .
it is a beautiful picnic spot , 6 kms away from itanagar ; a green forest lake surrounded by primeval vegetation , orchid s masses on tall trees , tree ferns provides a small taste of the magnificent forests of the state .
mughals brought their fine arches , perfect domes and filigree culminating in the perfection of the taj mahal at agra .
they were known as the black friars because of their distinctive black habits .
on the domestic network , mumbai is connected by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines , to most major cities in india by frequent daily flights .
nearest underground stops : charing cross , covent garden , embankment , leicester square .
storks and cranes make migratory stops at the lake and the lake incidentally , has asia 's longest water channel for rowing and yachting .
the chamundeswari temple s tower is 40m high with seven storeys .
although she could not see the animal , she spotted hoof prints with three toes and believed that such an animal did exist .
other species that have their habitat in the sanctuaries are nilgai , sambar , kotri , barking deer , chausingha or four horned antelope , sloth bear , wild boar , wild dog , jackal , wolf , hyena and bison .
antarctica is not easy to access but that is part of its appeal .
puttan malika palace museum is built by maharaja swathi thirunal balrama verma of travancore , an accomplished poet and musician , the traditional travancore style musician is made better with its exquisite woodcarvings .
one can visit these places in this order , first visit renuka then nahan and lastly paonta sahib from shimla side or the vice versa .
exotic denizens of the sylvan world add to the mystery and charm of this weird land .
vrindavan , a village - once noted for its fragrant groves , is where lord krishna spent an eventful youth .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking and online reservation for tours to the historical monuments in jodhpur , rajasthan , india .
if you ' re wondering , yes , canterbury is a long way to commute to work each day ! as this is a private residence , it is not open to the public except by special arrangement .
jantar mantar , one of the five observatories built by maharaj jai singh , in 1718 .
the eiffel tower was recently adorned with 2 light beams capable of being seen 80 kilometers away and activated each evening when the tower lights up .
one of these is an addiction called cricket and the best place to watch this game is in an open enclosure , surrounded by roughly 50 , 000 frenzied fans ! no wonder , it s called the religion of the subcontinent .
aizawl , the capital of mizoram , is perched precariously on a sharp ridge and has the atmosphere of a himalayan hill station .
the internal core was used as a shaft to lift the fuel needed for the fire .
the kullu valley begins at aut on the northern end of the gorge in the dhaula dhar , cut by the river beas at larji , above mandi .
situated in the middle of the park , the open-air theatre s unique atmosphere makes it a marvelous place to see a play .
goa is dotted with golden beaches , picturesque creeks , solitary lighthouses , ancient forts , stunning cliffs and charming fishing hamlets , many of them still remain the way nature sculpted them .
there are several decorated palaces like moti mahal , phool mahal , sheesh mahal are located inside the mehrangarh fort .
this historical monument is quite a formidable structure and is one of the most impressive architectural wonders in the jodhpur region .
the museum of archaeological survey of india is just outside the temple enclosure and houses sculptures and carvings from the ruins of the sun temple .
many locals , having already sensed an opportunity , offer basic ` ` extra-room-to-let ' ' type of accommodation .
tiger hill at its commanding heights provides the honeymooner in india with a panoramic view of the heights in kanchaenjunga and a mention must be made of the sanchen lake which is the sole source of domestic water for the denizens of darjeeling .
instead we have been left a beautifully landscaped park designed by john nash , with features including a boating lake , rock gardens , sunken gardens and rose gardens .
indian nationals need no special permits to visit andamans , however permits are required to visit nicobar islands , issued by the deputy commissioner , andamans at port blair .
a regulated agricultural system is now in place , and , in 1996 , for the first time , the water in nasser lake rose above the spill level .
the sloping angle of its sides is 51 degrees and 51 minutes. each side is carefully oriented with one of the cardinal points of the compass , that is , north , south , east , and west .
the temple served as both a marketplace and a religious institution .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
despite the abolition of slavery in 1863 , conditions changed very little until the early 20th century and the discovery of large bauxite deposits , which brought about a major change in the economic - and consequently , political - complexion of the country .
cochin is also one of the finest natural harbors of the world and a major indian port .
crucial to whatever was done was the creation of a decent public transport system and the result is the docklands light railway with its speed , comfort and good value .
the suitable period for river running depends on the adequacy of water volume .
the young himalayas as they are called harbor of the doon valley and the small but exceedingly beautiful dehradoon town lying in its womb , which is talked of as an epitome of natural beauty as far as hill stations in india , is concerned .
the engineer , and his expertise in calculation and construction , came to have an increasingly important role in architecture .
honeymooners in india can avail of honeymoon hotels in chennai with the way being led by names of the order of the taj coromandel hotel , the chola sheraton hotel , fisherman 's clove hotel and le meridian hotel to name a few trail blazers in the local hospitability industry as the most sought after of honeymoon hotels in chennai .
chandigarh , the terminus of northern railway , is connected with mumbai , delhi , kalka and other major cities in india .
an insignificant looking board bearing the name of kynance hangs from a tree and is discernible to only those tourists who have an eye for details .
accompanying it all are the subtle spices of mexico s famous tortillas , tamales and enchiladas , washed down with bold red wines and heady tequila and mescal .
agra has good rail and bus connections with major indian cities .
the government museum displays a collection of archaeological artifacts and the art gallery has a collection of the works of the noted artist of the court of mysore k. venkatappa .
he has shown zeus seated , but with the head almost touching the ceiling , so that we have the impression that if zeus moved to stand up he would unroof the temple .
the structure is in lotus shape so it often called the lotus temple ; the view of the temple is very spectacular just before dusk when the temple is flood lit .
the mortal remains of the blessed alphonsa and the blessed father chavara are entombed at the st. mary s church at bharananganam and the st. joseph s monastery church at mannanam respectively .
discourses are conducted here under a huge banyan tree which spreads to almost 40 , 000 sq. ft. of area .
a walk around the streets of mayfair is a true delight n from berkeley square to park lane ; there are endless sources of visual richness .
founded by sir cowasjee jehangir reddy s money , after who is named the earlier of the two structures , was designed by sir gilbert scott .
the london dungeon brings more than 2 , 000 years of gruesomely authentic history vividly back to life and death .
to the east there is a huge main entrance called ` ` jaya maarthaanda ` ` , to the north is ` ` jayarama ` ` and ` ` balarama ` ` , to the south is ` ` varaha ` ` , to the west is ` ` brahma puri ` ` and ` ` kari kallu thotti ` ` main gates .
mumbai is the headquarters for both , western and central railways and regular train services connect mumbai with all the major towns & cities in india .
he was reputed to have a collection of some 50 , 000 manuscripts , which he would be read out as akbar was himself illiterate , but the manuscripts were very precious for him and he carried them around wherever he went .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
so others argue that the site is too far from the euphrates to support the theory since the vaulted building is several hundreds of meters away .
they pay their respect to the memory of guru harkrishan , nominated as successor by the seventh guru , sri har rai .
most of the local pubs are owned by youngs , an excellent family run brewer based in nearby wandsworth and are well worth a visit .
the brazilian city of foz do igua u , also home of the famous igua falls , is located at the western tip of paran state , right by the border with paraguay and argentina .
india has something for everyone looking for adventure .
the official line though , from the head of public information at the palace of westminster , is that it 's just called ' the green .
an added attraction for the tourists to udagamandalam is the mountain train journey on a ratchet and pinion track which commences from kallar , near mettupalayam and wends its way through many hair-raising curves and fearful tunnels and chugs along beside deep ravines full of verdant vegetation , gurgling streams and tea gardens .
home of the british government , the building is actually called the palace of westminster , but is more commonly known as the houses of parliament , due to the two parts of government that live here .
the name kashmir also implies land desiccated from water : ` ` ka ` ` ( the water ) and shimeera ( to desiccate .
a century ago in dickens ' day , the hall was a more focal point .
national rail museum is located in chanakya puri .
being the tallest temple ( 65 meters ) in orissa , jagannath temple is one of the most magnificent pieces of monuments of india .
57 km from agartala , 25 km from neermahal , has several temples to lord vishnu , lakes and ruins of an old palace .
in the garden city you can visit the lal bagh with a variety of old trees , fountains , lotus pools , terraces and an assortment of tropical and sub-tropical herbs .
a warning - in the dungeon 's dark catacombs it always pays to keep your wits about you. some of the ' exhibits ' have an unnerving habit of coming back to life .
the andaman & nicobar are a group of picturesque islands , big and small , inhabited and uninhabited , a total of 572 islands , islets and rocks lying in the south eastern part of the bay of bengal .
supplies must have always been short and chancy , particularly in the winter .
this shrine is said to be built at the site where st. thomas lived and preached from a small cave .
once the ancient capital of a powerful hill state , kangra was known for its magnificent temples and as a centre of the arts .
the town of mandi , famous for its shivratri , is rich in history and culture .
sam sand dunes is one of the best nature 's gift to the human beings .
ahmedabads museums are also noteworthy the calico museum of textiles has one of the worlds finest collections of textiles , antique tapestries , wall hangings , costumes and antique looms .
hyderabad is well connected to delhi , mumbai , chennai , and bangalore and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
eiffel had not foreseen that this materialization of an artistic vision could become the world famous emblem of a city like paris , unique in its exceptional size but reducible and reproducible ad infinitum .
on both sides of the taj are two identical red sandstone mosques .
in 1799 during the thronging ceremony of the prince due to unavailability of the palace the ceremony took place in nazarabad under a pandal .
the structure was gradually erected as the bronze form was fortified with an iron and stone framework .
the foundation of the mosque was laid during the reign of mohammed quli qutub shah in 1614 , but was completed only in 1687 , when the golconda kingdom was annexed by emperor aurangzeb .
akbar was an astute ruler , who encouraged interaction with his hindu subjects and neighboring chieftains .
fatehpur sikiri is a city built in red sandstone .
the fort was the site of the military activity during the mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the british .
the route to simla pass is along a heavy blanket of snow , and from here , the beautiful chhota kailash peak is perennially in view .
brahmavart ghat is considered the holiest ghat of bithoor .
forest rest houses-periyar house , aranya niwas , etc . - situated in the park s tourist complex area offer good accommodation facilities .
so whether you want to mingle with kings and queens or the latest pop stars , this is the place to go .
this region witnessed the invasion of mahmud of ghazni in 1009 ad .
above the side shrine of the verandah are carved hariti , the goddess of prosperity , and her attendants to the right , and a court of naga , the serpent king to the left. excavated at a higher level , this small monastery with a narrow verandah has four unfinished cells .
hyderabad has always been more than an amalgam of monuments , mosques , minarets , mansions , mandarins and memories .
the tomb is in the centre of the char bagh , gardens laid out in four quadrants .
the tower very soon became a favorite subject for painters , and contemporary artists continue to use it as their model .
mountaineering routes are graded according to the degree difficulty and accessibility .
the sidi sayyad mosque is famous for its ten semicircular delicately carved stone windows ; one of them shows the intricately entwined branches of a tree , depicting the tree of life .
king damodar lives in our memory even at present , for the srinagar air-port is located at damodar i karewa ' , where the king is supposed to have lived in a big palace and , where again , he was transformed into a snake by the curse of a brahmin .
chennai is also an international airport as well and is served by several international airlines including british airways , lufthansa , malaysian airlines , singapore airlines , airlanka , emirates , indian airlines , air india and a few others .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
agra is not + just a decadent city of graveyards and stones , but it is a vibrant centre of culture , art and religious philosophies that have enriched mankind and shaped human thought over centuries .
all expeditions , whether indian , foreign , or joint , are required to apply to the imf , at least six least six months prior to departure , so that all the formalities are completed within the time frame .
these bazaars are a lot of fun not just what are available , but also for the cheerful people in their traditional costumes .
the lovely cherai beach , situated in vypeen , is just a 15 minute ferry ride from fort-kochi. .
for five centuries , since the new world discoveries of christopher columbus .
tree-lined streets and abundant greenery made bangalore the ' garden city ' of india .
if you are looking for souvenirs , buy the khumbeu ceremonial bamboo hat , made of waterproof wild hnathial leaves .
sankar varma , the king of kashmir exercised his influence over the regions of himachal pradesh in about 883 ad .
the roof of mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes .
cycle rickshaws and auto rickshaws are easily available all over the city and are a good local way to get around be prepared to bargain with the drivers or you may be taken literally for a ride .
it is said that the gardens were built by nebuchadnezzar to please his wife or concubine who had been ` ` brought up in media and had a passion for mountain surroundings .
the gorgeous green of the fringed palms ripple in the blue waters and blend into wavelets .
today the periyar lake presents an excellent boating spot for tourism .
road distances to some important centers of tourist interest in the region are : agra 230 km , alwar 142 km , bharatpur 176 km , jhunjhunu 182 km , jodhpur 332 km , mandawa 190 km , nathdwara 355 km , sariska 111 km , udaipur 374 km and delhi 261 km .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan 's capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of lord buddha .
the gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh , which symbolizes the gardens of paradise in islam .
apart from the extremely tempting menu choices there is an excellent wine list ( sensibly priced ) obviously selected by someone with knowledge .
some of madhya pradesh 's attractions are - khajuraho and kanha national park ( famous for its tigers .
jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters .
chandela architecture was obviously at its peak when the temples were built .
mumbai is a great place for shopping , where you can find everything from all across the country .
ayodhya is also famous for its close association with the epic ramayana .
the state has a picturesque colonial capital , shillong , and is home to an extraordinary diversity of people , which includes the khasi , jantia and garo tribes .
aurangabad is connected to all major cities and towns by good roads .
for palau and the northern mariana islands , see the pacific islands of micronesia section .
by 1822 , sullivan had started building stone house in what was then known as wotokymond , acquiring land from the todas at one rupee an acre .
agra continued to remain its importance and shah jahan , akbar s grandson ornamented the city with that masterpiece of mughal architecture the taj mahal and built several other beautiful buildings within the agra fort .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan s capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
big ben is not open to the public .
at taj mahal we meet with a beautiful admixture of lines , horizontal with vertical , and straight with curved all harmoniously set together in the total unity .
roha on konkan railway is the nearest railhead. mumbai is 165 kms. by road .
but they also have a small in house museum which gives the details of the progress and development in the history of railway in india .
the famous ' jhamu yatra ' is held in april-may when devotees walk over a narrow trench strewn with embers .
in the subsequent contact between the two governments , it has become apparent that the issue of sovereignty is a stumbling block and that the falkland islands ' issue will remain a key aspect of argentine foreign policy in the foreseeable future .
when the portuguese penetrated the indian ocean in the late 15th century , they arrived at india s southwestern coast .
the present-day persian name , takht-e-jamshid , means ` ` throne of jamshid ` ` , a legendary iranian king .
it was sullivan who revolutionized agricultural practice in these mountains , there by changing the face of the local economy .
umaid bhawan is fabulously maintained and contains within , the museum - a veritable treasure-trove of memorabilia showcasing the royal past of jodhpur .
as a climber , you can not afford to suffer from vertigo or a lapse of judgment .
after the olympic games were banned in ad 391 by the emperor theodosius i as pagan practices , the temple of zeus was ordered closed .
chennai , the largest city in southern india located on the coromandel coast of the bay of bengal , chennai beach image developed after 1639 when the british east india company established a fort and trading post at the small fishing village of chennai .
a picturesque garden laid out during the reign of maharaja shiv dan singh in 1868 a.d. the garden has an enchanting setting called shimla which was built by maharaja mangal singh and the cool shades make it the idyllic visiting spot during summers .
some of the important sites that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in kullu in himachal pradesh , india are raghunathji temple , akhara bazaar , naggar , manikarna and deo tibba .
the history of arunachal pradesh is a virtual treasure trove of myths and fascinating traditions , but the recorded history of this state is available only from the 16th century onwards , when the ahom kings began to rule assam .
paraguay is a little known landlocked country , which has found itself somewhat isolated from even its neighbors in the past by geography and politics .
the regional tourist office is located at tourist bungalow , 35 m . g . marg .
the foundation stone was laid in november 18 , 1921 by ` ` krishnaraja wodeyar the fourth .
hyderabad , the fifth largest metropolis of india , is the state capital of andhra pradesh , known for its rich history and culture with monuments , mosques , temples , a rich and varied heritage in arts , crafts and music .
the level of sophistication in artwork becomes obvious when one realizes that a 3 cm decorative element contains more than 50 inlaid gemstones .
once guarded by swaying date palm trees , which gave the city of khajuraho its name , the city is a study in art and sculpture .
in order to promote tourism in the north-east region , the governmant of india has decided to allow foreign tourists to visit nagaland .
murlen national park is situated about 245 kms. east of aizawl , this park lies close to the indo-myanmar border , it accommodates tigers , chamber deer , himalayan bear , barking deer , serow and many varieties of birds and orchid .
climate in summer , between march and june , the temperature soars up to 45 c during the day .
queen victoria was the first monarch to take up residence here after the architect john nash transformed it from buckingham house into a palace .
a delicately carved trelliswork marble screen encloses them .
the kankaria lake is surrounded by landscaped garden , terraced slopes , zoo , aquarium and balvatika .
all these unbroken victories created a feeling of pride among the people here and his victories came to be celebrated in a big way .
it commemorates the site of the ninth guru of the sikhs , guru teg bahadur 's martyrdom .
the city offers all modern facilities needed by a visitor and is a centre for cultural activities .
himalayas come up prime in the list of eminently see-able sites as far as the hill stations in india are concerned .
visit the tomb of the sufi saint , khwaja moinuddin chisti , and the dargah sharif .
in 1847 , mexico was forced to cede half of its territory to the usa .
the indigenous inca civilization of what is now peru was conquered by spain in the early 16th century .
lingti is the one of the longest and largest valley of the spiti .
centuries after khwaja moinuddin chishti s demise , his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind .
the two main dialects here are gujarati and hindi .
by around 1845 laminated iron was taking over as a more efficient and economic material than cast iron , heralding a spectacular rejuvenation in the conception of buildings .
held from 5th to 11th april on the kanakakunnu palace grounds , famous hotels from all across kerala take part in flavor food festival .
situated on the southern borders of gujarat , is the union territory of daman and diu .
the former docklands area , made redundant by changes in shipping that have concentrated on down-river tilbury , has rightly been seen as an opportunity to revitalize the area .
visitors from all over the world throng to the shiipgram city during taj mahotsav and enjoy it up to the full extent .
porbandar is famous as the birthplace of mahatma gandhi .
the dharamshala town is built on a spur of dhauladhar range , and varies from 1 , 250 m to nearly 180 m .
there were border disputes with brazil and ecuador , and especially with chile .
accommodation theres a range of accommodation but it doesn t go too far up in the luxury bracket .
the city has beautiful palaces , gardens , hills , temples and lakes , which fascinate visitors with their perfection .
it is said that the right foot of sati ( shivas consort ) fell here and a ` peeth was constructed .
one of the most popular deserts in indi the that region was once ruled by the rajputs .
surrounding the central chamber are four octagonal rooms where the other members of the royal family were to have been laid to rest .
the architectural style of the temple is one of the best examples of dravidian architecture .
its name , legend says , is a variation of pharaoh 's island , but it is more likely that the name is greek in origin .
akbar invited the architects and artisans all over the world and planned for the building with absolute perfection .
the place being nearer to the nainital , almora , pithoragarh etc can attract large number of water sports loving tourists also .
to celebrate their unity , the rhodians sold the equipment and used the money to erect an enormous statue of their sun god , helios .
the city is famous for its majestic forts , palaces and beautiful lakes which attract tourists from all over world .
in the end the project was simplified , but certain elements such as the large arches at the base were retained , which in part give it its very characteristic appearance .
entertainment facilities at the vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach .
it has also been used as a meeting place for members of the commonwealth of nations since 1962 and is , alas , not open to the public .
the main cities of significant value are madras , cochin , bangalore , hyderabad , bombay and coimbatore. these cities are of significant importance in each aspect .
vishakapatnam , which derives its name from vishka , the god of valor , is situated along the east coast on the bay of bengal .
with a population of 6 million people , chennai is a vibrant city ever growing , expanding and changing every year .
silvassa is 11 km from bhilad on the mumbai-ahmedabad highway and good motor able connect silvassa with mumbai ( 168 km ) , daman ( 44 km ) , surat ( 129 km ) , vadodara ( 269 km .
the fairs are held on the banks of the sangam the confluence of the three sacred rivers ganga , yamuna and saraswati .
ahmedabad became the base camp for the indian freedom struggle with gandhijis sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , the core .
the lodi rule was to end very soon and agra passed into the possession of the mughals .
today , bolghatty palace is a hotel run by the kerala tourism development corporation .
the fort can be visited during low tide when the waters have receded .
by 1816 , both powers had removed their respective garrisons and the falkland islands had no permanent inhabitants .
the monument was built by the egyptian pharaoh khufu of the fourth dynasty around the year 2560 bc to serve as a tomb when he dies .
a variety of tradition in each of three geographical and cultural regions of baghelkhand plateau , the plains of mahandi basin , and the dandkarnaya plateau of bastar have added color to the states rich cultural tapestry , making it a many splendor land .
the central , eastern and western plains have tropical dry deciduous forests , while the southwestern plateau has tropical thorny forests .
camp under the stars , listen to the haunting strains of folk music echoing across the sand dunes , stay at any of the many heritage resorts run by erstwhile royalty , marvel at the remote forts and palaces , or enjoy the gentle hospitality of villagers at an oasis .
the unique mughal style combines elements of persian , central asian , and islamic architecture .
numerous changes in control followed over the next 200 years , alternating between france , britain , the netherlands and portugal , until the territory was finally confirmed as french in 1817 .
trendier is frock brokers , an independent boutique , the emporium , essential music in creek road or decomania in college approach specializing in 1920s - 1970s furniture .
in the south-east corner is a small hindu shrine honoring laxmi , the goddess of wealth .
it is set in the midst of lush bamboo forests , near thenzawl ( 142 km from aizawl .
indian travel destinations , the tour guide are guiding the well - inclined tourists and interested travelers to a package tour of the breathtakingly beautiful town , dehradun , a proud hill station in india , utaranchal .
the shrine of lord sakshigopal is only 20 kms away from puri .
dahanu , a quite seaside town with a sprawling , uncluttered beach , is situated in thane district .
chowpatty is a popular beach where celebration of festivals such as coconut day and the ganesh chaturthi immersions take place .
the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttaranchal are the most popular destinations for trekkers , though chamba and manali in himachal pradesh , and ladakh and zanskar in jammu and kashmir , have interesting trekking routes as well .
all official transactions and meetings are held in gandhinagar , the administrative capital while ahmedabad and surat are two important trading centers .
the temple contains inscriptions dating back to the 13th century ad and is a fine specimen of the dravidian style of architecture .
tirupati is famous for the shrine on the 'seven hills ' of tirumala which attract millions of pilgrims from all over india .
visit the 4.5 km long golden marina beach , one of the longest beaches in the world .
during the british period political leaders considered dangerous to the interests of the raj and other dreaded criminals were deported from mainland to the cellular jail the indian bastille , situated on the sea coast of atlanta point in the north eastern part of port blair .
camel safaris generally cover the area around jaisalmer , bikaner or jodhpur , popularly known as the desert circuit .
shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept .
bangalore meets the season 's expectations , which means , it is warm in the summer , chilly in winter and the monsoons visit regularly .
a three-storied building , the main attraction is the traditional kalari - the arena for practicing the art , built 10 ft below ground level .
on the north face , is the pyramid 's entrance ? a number of corridors , galleries , and escape shafts either lead to the king 's burial chamber , or were intended to serve other functions .
although increasingly moderate and peruvian-centered in its appeal , apra has nevertheless been illegal for much of its history .
a camel safari is exciting , but is not exactly a relaxing vacation .
gandhi darshan & gandhi national museum gandhi darshan & gandhi national museum is across rajghat and gandhi smriti is on tees january marg .
this sandy tract of land adjoining pakistan boasts of udaipur , the city of lakes and mount abu , our prime concern here among other hill stations in india , the snow capped beauties of himalayas and their sylvan surroundings .
in the words of kalhan : ` ` the ministers and the grandees carried-off the revenues of the country , feasted in mutual jealousy on the master less kingdom , like wolves on a dead buffalo in a desert .
one of the oldest churches in kerala , the st mary 's church is believed to be one of the seven established by st thomas .
the quickest way to get here is by launch ( 1 hours ) from mumbai 's ferry wharf at sewri , alighting at mandwa and catching a bus from the jetty to alibag .
gujarat has a long varied history and a great number of interesting places to visit .
this massive fortress is located on top of a sandstone hill and has been controlled by rulers from several dynasties such as the mughals , tomars , britishers and scindias .
there are also numerous finely wrought gold and silver coins , gifted to the synagogue by various patrons .
indian airlines has regular flights to port blair , from calcutta and chennai .
these excavations together with detailed descriptions by ancient historians give us a fairly good idea about the shape and appearance of the mausoleum .
the ice skating club in shimla has already celebrated its dimound jubilee .
some of the loveliest place to travel are , sangla valley and kalpa in district kinnaur , naldera , narkanda and sarahan in district shimla , manali and manikaran in district kullu , dharamshala in district kangra and tabo in lahaul & spiti .
despite this there are some interesting sites including the catholic westminster cathedral ( not to be confused with its more famous neighbor , westminster abbey .
the quiet and beautiful township of bithoor is situated on the kannauj road , 27 km from kanpur .
these failed to materialize until the mitterrand presidency , under which a series of reforms was introduced in 1982-83. .
some decentralization also took place : local affairs are now dealt with by the regional council .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
for those with romantic tendencies , the house where poet john keats lived is open to the public and includes many of his personal effects .
its neighboring countries are pakistan , bangladesh , china , tibet and sri lanka .
capital complex area , with its monumental public buildings is the site of architect le corbusier 's most ambitious experiments .
panchkula district has a sub tropical continental monsoon climate where we find seasonal rhythm , hot summer , cool winter , unreliable rainfall and great variation in temperature .
all festivals are jointly organized by the department of tourism , government of tamil nadu and ministry of tourism , government of india .
kolhapur , i have heard , does not have much to offer a tourist .
the queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue .
kerla is known for its panoramic backwater stretches , lush green paddy fields , highlands and beaches .
in the words of sir francis young husband , ` ` the huge lake must have been twice the length and three times the width of the lake of geneva , completely encircled by snowy mountains as high , and higher than mount blank , while in the immediately following glacial period , mighty glaciers came wending down to the sindh , lidder , and other valleys even to the edge of water .
september to march is the best season to visit udaipur .
it is among the wettest places on earth - little wonder that meghalaya means , abode of clouds .
regular trains connect it with all major cities like ahamedabad , aurangabad , bangalore , bhopal , calcutta , delhi , goa , hyderabad , jaipur , madras , nagapur and trivandrum .
pipli is also known for colorful and original awnings , canopies , garden and beach umbrellas , shoulder and handbags etc .
it is said that there was a controversy between the rulers of tughlakabad and the saint over building this tank .
the city is also linked to muscat , london and new york .
the aryans with their superior war tactics defeated the local tribes and settled here permanently .
and it was sullivan again who encouraged the construction of the early ghats up in to the hills .
you will find great scrolls of the old testament and the copper plates in which the grants of privilege made by the cochin rulers were recorded .
the state of arunachal pradesh bill was passed by the parliament in 1986 and with effect from february 20 , 1987 arunachal pradesh became the 24th state of indian union .
they were replaced in 1897 and 1899 by the fives-lille machinery , relying on hydraulic accumulators , 16-meter long main pistons , cable loops and manual controls .
the maharaja palace is of harmonious synthesis of the hindu and saracenic styles of acrhitecture with archways , domes , turrets , colonnades and sculptures which are magnificent .
one can notice a marvellous change in vegetation , as one goes from kallar to coonoor .
the xenon 6000 watt lamps were chosen for their longevity , around 1200 hours .
the main markets of jaipur , from where you can buy some useful items are along jauhari bazar , bapu bazar , nehru bazar , chaura rasta , tripolia bazar and m.i. raod .
it is difficult to know what is more breathtaking : the bolivian 's gentle struggle to survive amidst a legacy of poverty and unrest , or the altiplano ascending ever higher .
constructed largely of wood , tipu 's palace is known for its five elaborately decorated arches surmounted by exquisite minarets , and paintings on the walls and ceilings .
it houses the idols of the five avataras of sri vishnu and has a small temple shrine dedicated to vishnu 's consort called vedavalli ammai in this part of the country .
the rajputs were never a threat to the moghul rulers of northern india , and perhaps that is why so many of their buildings and monuments still stand today .
sightseeing emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
you may even get a glimpse of the tiger during this season .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking for those interested in going on tour to historical monuments in kullu in himachal pradesh , india .
hybrid tea roses , miniature roses , floribunda , ramblers , roses of unusual colors like black and green are some of the more than 2 , 000 varieties of roses that will captivate your senses .
the fight to keep their land mirrors the bolivians ' fight to preserve their traditions , such as the pachamama ( ' mother earth ' ) ; shrines to her are found everywhere .
national rose garden is situated in the chanakya puri area of the capital .
this is the main bazaar in kullu , himachal pradesh , india .
some interesting architecture ; all designed by a chap named charles mant , who a kolhapur maharaja hired in the late nineteenth century to change the look of the city .
uttar pradesh shares international boundaries with nepal and china and is surrounded by the indian states of himachal pradesh , haryana , rajasthan , madhya pradesh and bihar .
camel safari could be the best choice for the adventure-seeking tourists moving around the interiors of thar desert , witnessing the cities and historical ruins of the city .
some regard this gradual focus on tourism as disconcerting many wish to preserve antarctica in its elemental state and want to avoid any potential environmental damage .
now this is a famous art gallery which consists of paintings by famous indian painter ` ` raja ravivarma .
the project was conceived and initiated by ptolemy soter around 290 bc , but was completed after his death , during the reign of his son ptolemy philadelphus .
the old bailey was built in the early 1900 's on the site of the old newgate prison .
the one to the right , the jawab ( answer ) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the mecca .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available in plenty .
at the city of giza , a necropolis of ancient memphis , and today part of greater cairo , egypt .
finally the east zone , which is the industrial area of the city .
there have been at least eight cities around modern delhi , and the old saying that whoever founds a new city at delhi will lose it has come true every time - - most recently for the british who founded new delhi in 1911 .
beyond doubt , khajuraho is not an indian destination you can afford to miss .
the akhara bazaar in kullu in himachal pradesh , india is one of the most frequented tourist sites ; this market has its own rustic charm .
mewar festival is one of the important festivals of udaipur and held every year in the month of april .
the bharatpur palace houses a large number of exhibits dating back to the early 15th century .
in bilaspur is a vyas gufa , which draws a continuous host of tourists and pilgrims .
they provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional indian life in the desert , with all the hardships , the beauty and the desolation .
the impressive pietra dura artwork includes geometric elements , plants and flowers , mostly common in islamic architecture .
much of the fort is occupied by the army and is out of bounds for visitors .
since 1811 , when it became independent , paraguay has been governed mainly by dictatorships and has endured a number of costly wars against neighboring countries .
india is home to a rich diversity of wildlife .
the only down side is the rather busy main road that cuts through the middle .
40 kms north-west of jaipur , now converted to a hotel , the old palace of samode surrounded by hills present a fairy tale picture .
a highway was constructed linking cairo to the new city of ismailia , an opera house was built , and verdi was commissioned to compose his famous opera , ` ` aida ` ` for the opening ceremony .
kaziranga national park , of assam tourism , the kaziranga national park is the only national park in the state situated in central assam with an area of 430 sq. km .
the marble mausoleum is square in plan with chamfered corners .
you have to remove your shoes before getting on to the platform. socks , or cloth shoes available at the base , should be kept on since the marble gets very hot during the day .
the city of joy is famed for stories of the love of king baaz bahadur , and his consort , rani rupmati .
on one end of chandni chowk is the fatehpuri mosque which was erected by the wives of shah jahan .
a picturesque world of backwaters , thatched houseboats , cormorants , chinese fishing nets and swaying palms-an ideal getaway .
the theosophical society is located along the adyar river .
sights , sounds and even smells combine to tell the colorful story of britain 's capital city to visitors traveling in cars specially designed to resemble london taxicabs but thankfully , without the drivers ! indeed , the cars were actually made by the same company who build real london taxis ! over 70 figures are involved in ' the spirit of london ' many of which are animated and fused with a host of special effects .
a remarkable structure , this is a masterpiece of indo islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the ajmer city .
in 408 bc , the cities united to form one territory , with a unified capital , rhodes .
champhai is situated at the end of mizoram and one can view from here the myanmar hills .
spanning a period of about 600 years between the 5th and the 11th century a.d. , the earliest excavation here is of the dhumar lena ( cave 29 .
food , rest , ayurvedic massages and long walks with the inevitable shopping will make your visit here memorable and a true vocation .
akbar s mausoleum at sikandra , 10 kms from agra , can be visited by hiring an auto rickshaw for the day .
sam sand dunes is one of the most popular dunes located on the turf of thar desert in jaisalmer that attracts huge number of tourists throughout the year .
other important places of interest around itanagar is conyi-polo vidya bhawan a premier publics school , north-eastern regional institute of science and technology ( nirjuli ) a engineering institute providing innovative way of education , arunachal university ( doimukh ) and government piggery and poultry farm ( nirjuli ) , indira gandhi park .
this imposing mosque was built in the name of jehanara begum , shah jehan 's daughter .
nearest underground stops : kensington high street , south kensington , gloucester road .
according to the oldest extant book on kashmir , nilmat puran ` ` , in the satisar lived a demon called jalod bowa , who tortured and devoured the people , who lived near mountain slopes .
agra is well connected by excellent train services to delhi such as the shatabdi express ( 2.5 hrs ) , inter city express ( 3hrs ) .
situated in the west of london , fulham is often described as a ' poor man 's chelsea ' , although the property prices suggest the area is anything but poor .
the fort built by rawal jaisal in the 12th century , stands on the 80 metre high trikuta hill , with beautifully carved jain temples .
adjacent to this stands the science museum : a pandora 's box of levers , switches , buttons and wizardry .
there are mixed heronries on the half submerged babul trees and the cacophony is unbelievable as painted storks , open bills , spoon bills , egrets , cormorants , white ibis and multitudes of others , tend their young .
there are a number of places of historical interest in ajmer , rajasthan , india that you could tour to during your historical tours to this historical city .
in the centre of the taj mahal there are the cenotaphs of shah jahan and mumtaz mahal .
the best season to visit this garden is during december / january when the flowers are in full bloom .
it was during this time , that the valley rose to great heights in the realm of philosophy , artand letters .
the ancient greek calendar starts in 776 bc , for the olympic games are believed to have started that year .
hence in order to bring back the glory of the mysore palace the queen , then representative of the king s family thought of building new palace which would be similar to the old palace .
foreign nationals are not allowed to visit nicobar islands .
the temperature is around 28c during the day , but can go down to 4c at night .
there 's even an open-air theatre and a sculpture park in the sector 10 section of the valley .
for the people who actually visited it , the answer was simple ; it was not just a temple .
at the dawn of the 20th century , the eiffel tower adopted quite quickly the new electric technology .
crafts museum is at pragati maidan grounds and it open from 10am-5pm daily .
ooty lake is a very popular tourist spot in ooty .
every pore of jodhpur tells its own tales of heroic tales that made legends out of kings and soldiers , romances that continue to warm the heart and a time when epics were lived out on the streets by everyday man .
large bags , cameras , phones , radios and cassette recorders can not be brought into the court and unfortunately there are no facilities to leave them outside .
visitors can kayak , canoe , fish , go on guided walking safaris ; ride on horseback , lunch on livingstone 's island and in addition to the well-known ` ` flight of angels ` ` , for the more adventurous there is micro lighting with stunning views of the falls .
the best time to visit jaipur city is in between october to march .
it is this massive assortment of places , people and traditions that makes brazil such an interesting country to visit. chile is situated in south america , bounded by peru , bolivia , argentina , the antarctic and the pacific ocean .
chennai , as a key honeymoon destination in india is home to several attractive honeymoon hotels in chennai , which can delight honeymooners in india , no bounds .
the kundah hydroelectric project executed in 1956 is also worth a visit .
the unparalleled beauty of these islands , create in mean a love of nature with a caressing tenderness , a wistful fondness for all its delicate nuances .
even if you are accustomed to horse riding , since the gait of the camel is quite different , it may take some time to get used to it .
for centuries the people of the valley had been suffering from the recurring curse of famines and floods .
the war of the pacific broke out between peru and chile in 1879 , with a complete victory for chile and the loss to peru of some southern territories .
horse safaris are organized in the marwar region of rajasthan .
the hindu festivals of dashera or navratri and diwali ; muslim festivals of id and christian festivals of easter and christmas are celebrated with great community participation and gusto .
the grassy slopes covered with snow , make it an ideal ski course drive 185 kms to guptakshi ( 1319 m ) from rishikesh .
a beautiful lake surrounded by a thick shoal where even sunlight can not penetrate and abundant with a wide variety of avifauna is a nature lover s paradise .
chandavaram is located on the right bank of river gundla kamma in pakasam district .
queen didda was the defector ruler of the state , as she was very dominating and exercised immense influence over her husband .
regular bus services connect chandigarh with amritsar , delhi , dharamshala , kulu , manali , nangal , pathankot and shimla .
the sharadotsav in october , is a cultural show with the countries leading dancers and musicians performing at historical locations in the agra fort and fatehpur sikri ( 39 kms ) there are several other fairs like the kailash fair ( 12 kms ) in august / september and the monthlong bateshwar fair ( 65 kms ) in november .
the actual tomb is situated inside the taj .
from the main beach it will take about half an hour to walk to kulaba fort , but a tonga can get you there quickly .
tipu 's palace was known as `rashk-e-jannat ' - the envy of heaven .
a thrill a minute adventure sport where split second decisions can literally make or mar heliskiing is probably the most excting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
it was n't until the twentieth century that some of the mysteries surrounding the hanging gardens were revealed .
udayagiri caves the history of indian architecture begins in the 3rd millennium bc .
yet nothing can prepare you for your first glimpse of manhattan s unforgettable skyline , your first ride in a yellow cab , the ubiquitous hamburger joints , the vast expanses of prairie , the sweet strains of new orleans jazz or the neon-lit excesses of las vegas .
marylebone remains a community in the very heart of london .
both of them are in ruins now , but even then , they stand as the most imposing monuments of ancient kashmir .
inside the city , taxis are the only way to get around .
the majestic ashoka pillar records visit of emperor ashoka to sarnath .
prohibition is strictly enforced in gujarat .
laxminath temple is located in a centre of the fort ; the less ornate hindu temple in the complex features an interesting dome that exhibits fine paintings .
once again , it secured its position of eminence as the capital of the north-western provinces .
the beauty of kerala can not be just written or explained , it has to be experienced .
and who can forget lush green tea gardens which beckon you to have a cup of fresh tea and enjoy the enthralling music of life .
to the east are commercial houses and the west bengal government tourist bureau .
for , known as kala pani or black water , the city was the site of the cellular jail of penal colony where political prisoners were banished , perhaps never to be seen again .
fatehpur sikri is richly decorated structure is a quaint mixture of styles .
for routes inside the inner line , the local district magistrate s permission , or that of the central home ministry is necessary .
sree chitra art gallery is of course the only among the many other paintings from the mughal , rajput , bengal and tanjore schools of art .
in the 2005 parliamentary elections , his party won a majority of seats in the national assembly .
the araucanian indians were the original inhabitants of chile .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honor of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
winter skiing in garhwal is , now , professionally conducted at the auli slopes .
the nearest railhead , silchar , in assam , is 180 km away .
during the wodeyar rule , mysore reached the zenith of its glory as a fabled center of oriental splendor .
housands of starving people immediately jumped into the flooded vitasta and in order to find the coins cleared the bed of the rocks and boulders which had choked up the passage .
the saint had said that the city of tughlakabad will never flourish and so did it happen .
on closer look , the lettering of the quran verses around the archways appears to be uniform , regardless of their height .
a large wooden gate with the initials voc engraved on it , is a little way off from vasco house , facing the parade ground .
the beauty and the salubrious climate of the valley were known even from the ancient times .
even the historians who give detailed descriptions of the hanging gardens never saw them .
deluxe bus services of rajasthan roadways also connect jaipur with many important tourist centers in the state , like kota , jodhpur , etc .
the wise thing to do is to hire a car with a driver if you want to get the many tourist spots within and outside the city .
every 12th year during the months of jan , feb world famous kumbh mela is held here on the banks of the holy sangam ardha kumbh mela is held every 6th year .
everyday , half of mumbai 's population commutes from far-flung suburbs to downtown offices , banks , factories and mills for a living .
a unique feature of the city is that hyderabad is the only city in the south , where the major language spoken is urdu .
across five indian states spread the mighty himalayas are compressed in this expanse is the widest monotonic geographical variety .
centrally located ulsoor lake is spread over an area of 1.5 sq. km .
however , whether tiring or relaxing , a camel safari is bound to be a unique experience .
but then again , like the rest of india , there are festivals that are celebrated by all , regardless of one 's own religion .
the old city built by the mughal emperor akbar stands to the south along the banks of the yamuna .
jodhpur has some festivals that are special if not unique to it , the kite festival of jodhpur being one of them .
just a few kilometers away are two undiscovered beaches nandgaon and kashid .
rajasthan offers an extensive variety of cuisine 's for its visitors - the variations being as diverse as its culture , its hereditary structure , its geography and its climate .
scholars opine that this was one of the sites containing buddhist stupas described by hiuen t'sang. .
the subject of john buchan 's ' 39 steps ' , the clock tower is unfortunately not open to the public so you wo n't be able to check how many steps actually lead to the belfry .
the most meager that your budget can get is $ 25 per day of your stay .
the mayo hall complex is a complete sports complex with table tennis , basketball , badminton and volleyball facilities .
besides the hotel fare , chinese and south indian restaurants are also widespread .
palitana is the architectural grandeur of nearly 863 jain temples on the shetrunjaya hills , have few parallels .
imphal is basically a mini-metropolis , the capital city of this beautiful land of blue-green hills , cascading rapids , carpets of flowers and winding rivers beckons the tourist .
the main shopping area is around the civil lines , chowk and katra regions .
a bulbous white double dome majestically crowns the taj .
one of the ten most luxurious trains in the world , palace on wheels could be described as the pride of india known for the wonderful , unparallel , unforgettable and unique style onboard .
this gigantic and imposing historical fort has a number of palaces , havelis , temples and other buildings inside the fort walls .
india is a vast country known for its diversified culture and traditions .
another temple dedicated to lord shiva is the someshwara temple built by kempe gowda in ulsoor .
agar was once the capital of the mughal empire and even today it seems to linger in the past .
the result was immediate and from that point , the number of foreign visitors rose steadily .
the fate of the nawabi rule was sealed in the battle of plassey and the english went ahead to seize power , a grip which loosened only 250 years later when power was transferred from the british empire to the indians .
while the military has always been a powerful force in peruvian politics , its principal opponent and the country 's largest political party for much of the 20th century was the alianza popular revolucionaria americana ( apra ) , founded by dr victor raul haya de la torre in 1924 , as a continent-wide anti-imperialist movement .
indian travel destinations accounts for a package tour to dehradun , which shares many features of significance with other hill stations in india , uttarnachal .
rudyard kipling has written , ` ` surely the gods live here ; this is no place for men .
though madras is predominantly populated by hindus , it has several fine monuments and places of worship connected to the christian faith .
poet ghyasuddin had designed the verses on the tombstone , while ismail khan afridi of turkey was the dome maker .
it is said that , the very first ray of the sun every morning falls upon this konark temple , from which it got its name .
in june , mango growers from all over india are invited to enter their prize fruits in the various competitions ; visitors to the fair can see and taste all the traditional varieties of the fruit as well as the latest hybrids from the agricultural universities .
visit sundernagar and the adjoining balh valley , rewalsar lake and apple orchards of karsog .
the story of taj mahal reflects the intensity of love .
a visit to the falls and the contact with wildlife and the spectacle of the waters awake an emotion that many hope to experience once in a lifetime .
it is a delight for lovers of culture .
an ancient town that lies 56 km south of aurangabad , paithan is renowned for its famous paithani silk saris .
the royal charisma of rajasthan tour brands is the most desiring tourist destination in the world .
the parvati valley , named after the consort of lord shiva , is well known for manikaran which is revered as a place of pilgrimage by hindus and sikhs .
ajanta finished caves is a representation of the miracle of shravasti when the buddha manifested himself in thousand forms .
the kanha national park is open daily from 1 november to 30 june , although management reserves the option to close it earlier if the rains begin before the end of june .
the world famous khajuraho temples were built by the chandela kings between 950 a.d. and 1050 a.d. .
besides the miraculous architectural features and the elaborate ornamentation of the taj mahal , many additional features , which can often be overlooked , help complement and enhance this spectacular monument .
but prior to this in 1812 , the first englishmen who were sent up the nilgris by the collector of coimbatore , were mr. keys , assistant revenue surveyor , and his assistant , mcmohan .
the babylonian kingdom flourished under the rule of the famous king , hammurabi ( 1792-1750 bc ) . it was not until the reign of naboplashar ( 625-605 bc ) of the neo-babylonian dynasty that the mesopotamian civilization reached its ultimate glory .
the taj is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular buildings of the world .
the contact with the greeks is responsible for the beautiful architectural and sculptural style of old kashmir temples , and the coinage of later kashmir kings has also been influenced by this contact .
orissa is predominantly rural , with fertile green coastal plains rising to the hills of eastern ghats .
the great pyramid is believed to have been built over a 20 year period .
green valley in arunachal wide sweeping valleys and deep gorges give way to thick deciduous forests and alpine meadows , undulating tea gardens and somber slopes , bar narrow terraces , looking like gigantic staircases flung down the mountains , gently contoured hills and imposing , snow draped peaks surrounded by a fluff of clouds look down upon thundering rivers and deeply fissured glaciers .
patna has an airport of its own with all the major airlines having air services to and fro from the place .
allahabad is among the largest cities in uttar pradesh .
the best way to see sand dunes and other sights around jaisalmer is to take a camel safari .
qutab minar since those early days many dynasties and rulers flourished on its regal soil .
dimapur is connected by good motor able roads with kohima 74 kms , kaziranga 155 kms , imphal 220 kms , guwahati 292 kms , shillong 365 kms and calcutta 1442 kms .
its abstract qualities , without practical purpose in themselves , and the purity of its design , made it a subject for the many forms of artistic expression of the city and country which had created it .
but there is little of such freedom for bolivians , many of whom count for some of the poorest people in latin america .
the suez canal emerged on the political scene in 1956 , during the suez crisis .
a fifteen-minute ferry ride from marve or borivali takes you to gorai and manori .
even if situated in the middle of nowhere , the khajuraho temple complex site is one the most popular places both foreign and indian tourists .
ajmer is also the base for visiting pushkar ( 11 km . ) , the abode of lord brahma , lying to its west with a temple and a picturesque lake .
marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
a history which encompasses all the various kings and emperors who fixed their royal citadels here - - indraprastha , lal kot , quila rai pithora , siri , jahanpanah , tughlakabad , ferozabad , dinpanah , delhi sher shahi or then shahjahanabad .
a chic paradise for shoppers and royal watchers , kensington is home to a wealth of stores from high street clothes outlets to the fascinating antiques shops of kensington church street .
the growing number of visitors queuing up to experience the uniqueness of the himalayas , it is essential to protect its fragile environmental balance .
the northern rivers with their origins in the lofty himalayas provide an exciting adventure for the white water enthusiasts .
in 1887 eiffel agreed to build the locks of the panama canal , an immense undertaking badly managed by ferdinand de lesseps , which ended in the biggest financial scandal of the century .
one of the most beautiful mosques in western india , the superbly proportioned jumma masjid ( 1423 ad ) , is constructed in yellow sandstone and has 15 domes resting on approximately 250 columns of various heights .
on the western wall of the compound is the museum , there is a good collection of mughal miniature paintings , portraits of the mughal rulers , ancient coins and porcelain .
bangalore is world famous for its software business .
in 1970 , the aswan high dam was inaugurated by president sadat .
city palace is situated in the heart of city , it occupies about one seventh of the old city area .
lingaraja temple is dedicated to lord shiva and the lingam here is unique which is a hari hara lingam - half shiva and half vishnu .
however , the southern portion , in and around the town of ratnagiri , is famous for its alphonso mangoes .
bartholomew the great which stands near the 1 , 000 year old st .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
a memorial to the immortal tamil poet-saint thiruvalluvar , this valluvar kottam landmark is located at nungambakkam .
visit the bibi-ka-maqbara , built by aurangazeb as a tomb for his wife , an imitation of the taj mahal , a himroo factory where beautiful cotton and silk fabrics are produced , panchakki - a water - mill with in which there is a tomb of a muslim saint .
information about any such exhibition can be obtained from the museum itself or from the tourist offices .
before switching over to the early muslim period , it would be proper to point out , very briefly of course , the contribution of people here , in the field of philosophy , literature and archaeology .
what used to be the favorite summer getaway of tipu sultan , is now a popular picnic spot with its awesome fort , sprawling lawns and two ancient temples .
in a way , it is a synthesis of the bold masculine red sandstone structures built by akbar and the delicately crafted white marble buildings of jahangir and shah jahan .
nearest railhead 15kms away from khatima distance and from naintal 119 kms nearest airstrip is pantnagar .
the irish novelist bram stoker ( 1847-1912 ) used to enjoy walking in the peace of high gate cemetery .
ecuador ( including the ancient kingdom of quito , established by the shiris ) was populated by several mutually antagonistic tribes at the time of the inca conquest in the mid 15th century .
the sukhna lake was created in 1958 by damming the sukhna choe , a seasonal stream that flows down from the shivaliks .
by 1998 , the country was in the grip of the struggle between the government , traffickers , right-wing paramilitaries and left-wing guerrillas .
the initials correspond to the monogram of the once powerful dutch east india company , which had its office in cochin for almost 150 years .
one probably has to realize first that the 2000 km long reef runs predominantly in the north-south direction , therefore spanning a wide range of climates .
it was covered with a casing of stones to smooth its surface ( some of the casing can still be seen near the top of khefre 's pyramid .
it is the great pyramid of giza .
nek chand 's rock garden is probably chandigarh 's premier attraction , a popular spot for tourists .
though the city has developed more as a business and commercial centre , it also holds attraction as a centre for the study of indo-saracenic architecture , a style that fuses elements of hindu and islamic architecture .
amer palace , magnificent fort with its huge ramparts & watchtowers is believed to have been the capital of the ` ` minas ` ` , the original inhabitants of rajasthan .
abbi falls , homed in this hill station in india , emanate from the rocky and moss strewn heights from amongst the hills exposing oneself to the spray in this hill station in india , which is a memorable experience .
brajbhoomi - the land where lord krishna was born and spent his youth .
also visit jaswant thada , an imposing marble memorium built in 1899 and the museum located in the umaid public gardens .
laxmi narayan temple s interiors contain the most exquisite of orchha 's wall paintings .
this also enabled to restructure the criss-cross beams between the second and third floor , allowing for two separate emergency staircases to replace the dangerous winding units that were there from the structure s origin .
opened only recently to foreign tourists , the resort with its simple but attractive housing , have already become a circled spot in the brochures of tour operators all over .
sullivan didn t discover the nilgiris , but he was the first to see its potential as a sanatorium and he laid the foundations that changed the social and economic face of these hills .
the amber fort complex is located atop a hill overlooking the tiny maota lake and the jaipur-delhi highway .
the spices board of kerala has under its ambit two major nurseries , with one being at chithirapuram , which enjoys a deeper identity as a hill station in india .
the vishram ghat is lined with elegant temples and some of mathura 's most important shrines are found here - the mukut temple , radha-damodar , murli manohar , neelkantheshwar , yamuna-krishna , langali hanuman and narasimha temples .
three large sized images made of clay and painted brightly are its focal attraction .
mysore also celebrates the national festivals of independence day , the republic day and the birthday of gandhiji .
maharaja bhupinder singh was deprived of the right of entry into the more royal and grandiose shimla as he had a spat with lord kitchener .
look for tiny , picturesque villages , acquaint yourself with different people & and their lifestyle .
humayun 's tomb - built by the wife of humayun , haji begum in the mid 16th century , and this red sand stone structure is considered to be the predecessor of taj mahal .
hotels , resorts and lodges etc to suit all budgets are available at port blair and some other places also .
however only a day 's visit is allowed to places like jolly buoy ; south cinque ; red skin ; moun hariet and madhuban .
nagarjuna , in the words of havell , was the luther of buddhism , the apostle of bhaktimarga , who would find means of expression for the deep seated religious instinct of the masses , through the way of devotion to the divine teacher , rather than through the dry agnostic philosophy of hinayana school .
spectacular views apart , the himalayan foothills are just ideal for trekking , offering energetic outdoor people a different and exciting option for a holiday .
it is an ideal place to see a large variety of aqua-fauna at close quarters .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
the tradition lasted for centuries. each dynasty added to the height , breadth , length , and elaborated the design mostly through forced labor .
few tourists venture far from brazil 's spectacular beaches but a trip into the interior reveals a different brazil , one with a great deal to offer the visitor .
jodhpur , the second largest city of rajasthan , at the edge of the thar desert was once the capital of the marwar state .
one of the world 's most exciting journeys , the palace on wheels offers the world class services and facilities onboard .
advance bookings are recommended , especially during the holiday season .
similar to the great pyramid , we are now visiting the burial place of an ancient king .
on the ancient island of pharos , now a promontory within the city of alexandria in egypt .
although covent garden is usually packed with visitors , the area remains attractive and vibrant .
throughout their history , the pyramids of giza have stimulated human imagination .
bangalore is now an international airport as well and is currently served by lufthansa , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
established in 1983 indian school of martial arts is in vazhuthacaud in the heart of the city .
perched atop the aravallis , the kumbhalgarh fort is the second principal fortress after chittorgarh .
barahi is a deity dating back to the 9th century ad , worshipped according to tantrik practices .
a good network of roads joins jaisalmer with jodhpur and many other destinations in and around rajasthan .
the story of taj mahal is an example of devotion and faith .
jaipur remains the only place where the nine sectors that sub-divide the city symbolize the nine divisions of the universe .
it was even shown on roman coins , just as famous monuments are depicted on currency today .
raja wodeyar ascended the throne in 1610 ad , in srirangapatna the erstwhile capital and inaugurated the dashara festivities which are still celebrated with all grandeur .
there is a small mosque on the second floor , which is the oldest in hyderabad .
jaipur 's regal heritage is evident in its architecture and culture .
onam generates a lot of excitement and the city wears its heart on its sleeve during this time .
high altitude climbers will enjoy the rock faces at sonmarg in kashmir and gangotri in garhwal , uttaranchal .
the museum is located on the barakhamba road and is closed on mondays .
a major feature of the fort and palaces is the superb quality of stone carvings .
the park 's area includes the former shooting reserves of the erstwhile royal state of panna and chhattarpur and the jungles today harbor many species of wildlife .
jaisalmer is also famous for its embroidery , rajasthani mirror work , rugs , blankets , antique , and stonework and camel safaris into the barren sand-dunned desert .
hill stations of india are yet to become commercial hubs but the general tourists and people who are into backpack traveling cause a lot of pollution and disturb the tranquil of hill stations in india .
the moths from december to february are pretty cool .
he stayed in kashmir for nearly two years , studied sanskrit and hindu scriptures at the feet of learned men here .
one can also drive from drive in from delhi , either by a rented car or one 's own .
other attractions include the where gandhijis cottage ` ` hridaykunj ` ` , has been preserved much as he left it over 50 years ago ; the intricately carved , white marble ; the triple arched gateway ; the elaborately carved wooden ; the elegant architectural complex the 34sided and the ( step well .
the historic importance of this place stems from the fact that sardar vallabhbhai patel began his first satyagraha in the year 1928 .
for those of you that can not get through a holiday without sport ; the sadar club at ratanada offers a round of golf .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
imphal can also issue permits to tourists traveling by road from imphal to kohima & dimapur in nagaland .
the best time to visit bharatpur is during the months of october , november , february and march .
coconut palms , mango orchards , chikoo wadis and paddy fields make alibag a pleasantly verdant and unpolluted retreat .
strabo was right , except that the sculptor is to be commended , not criticized .
foot guards from the household division , in their distinctive red tunics and black bearskins , can be seen on guard duty outside the palace daily .
it was shah jehan who ordered the building of the taj , in honor of his wife , arjumand banu who later became known as mumtaz mahal , the distinguished of the palace .
they lost their independence with the rise of the guptas in the north gangetic plains .
this palace gets its beauty by the chamundi hill to its backside and is located towards east of mysore city .
puri , the abode of lord jagannath , is situated in the eastern part of orissa and is one of the four holy dhams of hinduism .
safdarjung tomb - the safdarjang tomb is besides the of safdarjang airport .
the construction of imperial bombay continued well into the 20th century .
qutab minar - in 1199 , qutbuddin raised the qutab minar either as a victory tower or as a minaret to the adjacent mosque .
trekking provides the thrilling adventure of an uphill climb on narrow bridle paths , breathtaking views across growing hills , valleys and gorges and the changing vegetation at every turn .
regular bus service connect hyderabad with bangalore , chennai , nagpur , tirupati and other tourist centers in andhra pradesh .
the perfect time to go there , however , is mid january when the international kite festival takes place , and enthusiasts come from all over the world to test their skills .
adventure tourism in india offers rare opportunities of the order of parasailing , skiing , water sports , river rafting , trekking and mountain climbing to name some of the chief deals on offer in india .
from december on , the migratory geese , duck and cranes are the main feature of the sanctuary .
buddhist temple at kushinagar and among the ruins of nalanda you can still hear a distant echo of the chants of scholars of ancient times .
the museum has separate section for the harrapa ( indus valley civilization ) collection .
we do not exactly know the cultural horizon of the burazahoma megalithic , nor the purpose for which they were erected , but the indications are , they were put in places towards the end of the neolithic period at that site , between 400 to 300 b. c .
it was a small village made popular by the british who established shimla as there summer capital in 1864 ad .
also known as netaji subhas chandra marg , marine drive features a bustling waterfront promenade .
amanat khan shirazi was the calligrapher of taj mahal , his name occurs at the end of an inscription on one of the gates of the taj .
the jaigarh fort also houses the jai ban - the largest cannon in asia , rumored to have been test fired only once .
there is also one of abraham lincoln ( 1809-1865 ) , the 16th president of the usa .
the watch towers were redesigned and modern canon were mounted in strategic areas .
bhubaneshwar is directly connected by rail with calcutta , puri , chennai , delhi , mumbai , bangalore , guwahati , hyderabad , tirupati and trivandrum .
later , several stacked mastabas were used .
delhi is the capital city and one of the largest cities in india .
the british introduced the brown and rainbow trout to the streams of kashmir , where they have thrived .
retaining the charms and mannerisms of the nizams , they are courteous , polite and extremely helpful .
madhya pradesh state is famous for the gwalior fort .
a small museum displays photographs and other antiques of the britishers , relevant to these islands .
there are two temples on either side of the main palace , dedicated to lord-krishna and lord shiva .
it was gokul that lord krishna was brought up in secrecy by yashoda , in the pastoral beauty of this village on the banks of the yamuna .
on sundays , national holidays and during dashara navarathri festival , the palace is lit up with lights which is festival for eyes and is a experience of a life time in viewing the palace in full lights at night .
located in northwestern cambodia , angkor , the capital of the ancient khmer empire was possibly founded around the ninth century ad by king jayavarman ii .
even those who do not ordinarily enjoy poetry look forward to the ' maha moorkh sammelan ' , or ' conclave of colossal fools ' . chandigarh is the only city in india that hosts such a gathering .
an occasional buffalo , with unusually long curved horns clip-clops along the road at a rapid pace , even as its owner huffs and puffs behind , desperately attempting to keep up .
the ride to ` ` the paradise on earth ` ` makes one admire the sylvan surroundings and the attendant himalayan flora with the tall poplars and cedars .
visit the kanch mandir , jain shrine worked in glass beads , lal bagh palace and the new palace .
even extraterrestrial-related theories have been proposed with little evidence in support .
the main attraction in dwarka is dwarkadhish temple .
the red temple is a digambar jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple .
two mounted life guards from the household cavalry keep mounted sentry duty during the day .
kanha 's valleys are enclosed by hills topped with plateau , locally called dadar .
for tourists , the high court and the open hand monument are more accessible than the legislative assembly and the secretariat .
the chinese fishing nets , huge cantilevered fishing nets along the backwater , are the legacy of the traders from the court of kublai khan .
nearest underground stops : oxford circus , piccadilly circus , marble arch .
of these , avalanche located at a distance of 28 km from ooty is a nature lover 's paradise .
the west contains the university , and institutions of engineering , architecture , asian studies and medicine .
within the fort complex laid the beautifully carved jain temples built between the 12th and 15th centuries .
the mausoleum was completed around 350 bc , three years after maussollos death , and one year after artemisia 's .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
there are nature parks and picnic spots at kufri .
discover the real maharastra while you soak up the soft sands .
the town of chamba is located in the colorful valley surrounded by the shivalik ranges and has the district headquarters .
a huge dome , rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the taj mahal .
they are mostly located in the quieter cantonment area and the new tourist complex .
some of the most popular historical monuments in india are the taj mahal and itmad-ud-daulah 's tomb in agra , red fort , jama masjid , humayun 's tomb and the jantar mantar in delhi , the meenakshi temple in chennai , arjuna 's penance at mahabalipuram , bharathiyar illam in tamil nadu , the hawa mahal , amber fort and jantar mantar in jaipur , the ajmer sharif in ajmer and many more .
dalhousie in line with the british era elegance and stateliness of shimla is too worth a watch just for the sake of experiencing the hallowed past of the british era .
194 kms from bangalore is hassan , from where one can go to belur , halebid and shravanabelagola .
it was to be designed like a large pylon with four columns of lattice work girders , separated at the base and coming together at the top , and joined to each other by more metal girders at regular intervals .
often termed as a garden city , bangalore 's climate has also drawn towards itself a large number of industries like the hal and the indian telephone industry and has become image a premier manufacturing and commercial centre since the 1950s .
isma is also a renowned healing centre where the traditional kalarichikitsa - an exclusive branch of medicine - has been practiced for years .
emperor akbar founded this city in 1575 and called it by name of ` illahabas , which has now become modern allahabad .
ajanta caves tour about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horseshoe .
so it was moved to its present site and now stands surrounded by a chaotic mass of traffic .
the city fell into decline and disarray till modern times , when people rediscovered its historical importance and tremendous tourist potential .
the forest around the lake at bharatpur harbours the sambar , chital , nilgai , jackal , hyena , fox , mongoose and porcupine .
all five coastal provinces , encompassing 640km ( 398 miles ) of coastline between them , have attractive beaches and plenty of hotels and resorts for tourists .
arunachal pradesh is host to 20 odd tribes and a larger number of sub tribes that have their origin in one main stump but the geographic isolation down the years has lead to a distinctness , which can be deciphered but by a trained eye .
32 kms from bharatpur , deeg is an 18th century stronghold , whose massive fortifications are surrounded by luxuriant gardens , woods and pools .
lush green well maintained lawns , rare tree species , a 20 million year old fossilized tree , an italian-style garden bordering a clear pool , a vast variety of flowering bushes and plants in myriad hues , fern house with a vast range of ferns and orchids , are some of the many highlights of this garden .
according to legend , somnath is as old as creation , built by the moon god himself .
puri is also called ` ` sri purusottama dham ` ` or ` ` martya vaikuntha ` ` , the abode of lord vishnu on earth .
at that time it was still called barking abbey although it was no longer a monastic abbey .
the illuminated ` ` fairy fountain ` ` and the elegant graeco - colonial style buildings add to the beauty of cubbon park .
on the banks of the river mandakini , and centre of ritual activity , this ram ghat is the most frequented in chitrakoot .
just above the naubat khana is the indian war memorial museum which has a rich collection of amours , guns , swords , and other items related to war .
in 1966 , punjab under went another split ; it was divided into the predominantly sikh and punjabi - speaking state of punjab and the state of haryana .
many rajasthan roadways passenger and deluxe buses pass through kumbhalgarh from ajmer , pushkar , jodhpur and ajmer .
agra , the city of the taj mahal and once the capital of the mughal empire , has several monuments which display the splendour of mughal architecture .
around & about by air bamrauli airport lies 18 kms out of the city .
today chennai is the fourth largest city in india and commands a major share in the trade from the south .
the exception can be found at the marble arch end of oxford street in the form selfridges , the largest department store in europe , whose frontage alone is worth a look .
rock climbing can become complex because it involves the interplay of many elements you , your gear , your skill and techniques .
unlike mumbai , the chennai port is not a natural harbor , nevertheless , this man-made port is very modern and efficient in handling cargo and other traffic .
mandvi was traditionally the port town for pilgrims to mecca and today maintains an active sea faring image .
the khajuraho of today is more familiar to today 's monuments of commercialization - hotels , restaurants and shops - signs of ordinary civilization .
built by marthanda varma , this palace at karthikapally in kayamkulam is famous for its mural depicting the story of gajendramoksham dating back to the 18th century ; this exquisite piece of art is one of the largest murals in kerala .
taj mahal is an evidence that how emotions and feelings are important to human life .
the next great king was praversein ii in whose time people enjoyed perfect peace and prosperity .
with his honor and dignity severely compromised , he withdrew from business .
rajghat : located near the banks of the yamuna river , rajghat is a serene monument .
flanked by the high court and the old secretariat , the buildings were completed in 1874 .
the past with all its grandeur , in the form of the temples gaze benignly at a city that continues to thrive because of what its rulers gave it .
lush green forests , meandering rivers , large waterfronts , cascading waterfalls , the gentle gurgle of streams , the distant hills , a gorgeous kaleidoscope of flora and fauna that is the serene and sylvan land of dadra and nagar haveli , nature at her best .
the major drawback of this machine was the volume of liquid and proportional antifreeze additives necessary ; it was closed to the public every year from november to march .
the buddhist ruins are located on the contiguous hills locally known as bojjanakonda and lingalametta and consist of numerious monolithic stupas , caves and structural buildings .
includes live commentary and a souvenir guide map ( map in seven languages .
kanha national park ( which is now officially known as kanha tiger reserve ) is located in the maikal range , the eastern sector of the satpura hills of the central indian highlands .
besides providing a suitable and proportionate ceiling to the interior hall , it enabled the builder to raise the height of the outer dome as much as he desired in order to present a lofty and imposing effect .
banks are open from 10 am 4. 30pm on weekdays , on saturdays working hours are between 10am to 1pm .
today , this rose garden has the largest collection of roses in the country .
haji ali mosque is located at the end of a long causeway protruding into the arabian sea .
halebid 's 12th century hoysaleswara and kedareswara temples are masterpieces of hindu art .
the temple of angkor wat was dedicated to the hindu god vishnu by king suryavarman ii , who reigned between ad 1131 and 1150 .
the legendary shore temple of somnath is one of the most sacred shiva shrines in india .
the spanish prevailed in the early 18th century , after the establishment of a settlement at san felipe de montevideo ( which eventually became the uruguayan capital ) in 1726 .
jaipur is surrounded by a wall having seven gates and was built for protection from invading armies and wild animals that lurked just outside in the jungles that surrounded the city .
the latter is a subterranean river believed to emerge at the sangam or confluence to join with the other two rivers .
the nearest mainline station for shimla is at kalka , 95 kms away , from here , there is a picturesque toy train upto shimla four times daily .
if the weather is clear , one can have a spectacular view of the towering mountains including nanga parbat ( 26624 ft . ) and other peaks and also a panoramic view of the kashmir valley .
when the red fort was being built yamuna used to flow on its one sides and there were deep moats on the other .
located at the city of agra in the state of uttar pradesh , the taj mahal is one of the most beautiful masterpieces of architecture in the world .
the entry in the complex is free on fridays .
the temple was decorated with bronze statues sculpted by the most skilled artists of their time : pheidias , polycleitus , kresilas , and phradmon .
the focal stupa has an image of the master seated in a pavilion .
the ambience reflects a typical gujarat village , the food is traditional , the crockery consists of leaf , plates and earthenware cups , the seating is rustic and the entertainment is ethnic ! but within the city , food choices range from multi cuisine restaurants serving a variety of asian cuisines , american style fast food snack bars and caf s , no frill reasonably priced restaurants serving typical gujarati , south and north indian cuisines .
various bamboo items are also a good buy from luangmual handicrafts centre .
nearest underground stop is hammersmith .
shimla became the summer capital of india and even today , many old houses and buildings tell the story of english grandeur .
if you re fired by the spirit of adventure , let the sparks in your heart fly in india , a land blessed with lofty snow cled , peaks , crystal glaciers , rolling meandering rivers , cascading waterfalls , dense forests , and hospitable people , blessed with a rich culture , a land perfect for mountaineering , trekking , and rock climbing .
georges seurat painted it in 1888 , even before its completion .
recorded evidence also exists in the revered scriptures the vedas and the grand epics , the ramayana and the mahabharata , as also in the puranas of this holy place allahabad formerly called prayag .
mandawa houses a collection of armories , costumes of ancestors , canons from 1820 , ancient coins , numismatic , collection and many other interesting items preserved in a museum .
marble steps surrounding the building platform led to the high terrace which was approximately 80 m ( 260 ft ) by 130 m ( 430 ft ) in plan .
these are temples of significance to the jain pilgrims .
built in 1858 / 9 the bell was named after one sir benjamin hall and when it was cast it was britain 's heaviest bell .
houses with pink latticed windows line the streets , and look almost magical at sunset .
the mortal remains of dr. c.n. annadurai , former chief minister of tamil nadu was buried at the anna square which is at the northern end of marina beach .
jag mandir , fateh prakash palace , crystal gallery and shilpagram are some of the best monuments and sites situated in the surroundings of the udaipur .
the indigenous builders of the taj mahal fully understood the deceptive nature of the human eye .
imphal is one of the most ancient towns in the indian subcontinent and is blessed with a healthy climate with evergreen scenic beauty , extending the tourists a cordial invitation .
mandi is situated on the left bank of the river beas at an altitude of 800 m. above the sea level .
spanish rule lasted until the early 19th century after suppressing several rebellions , the spaniards were finally overthrown in 1822 , by a force backed by simon bolivar , fresh from victory in colombia .
lakshminarayan temple , a modern hindu temple , built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
the conjunction between internal and external forces became apparent during the great war of 1843-52 , which centered on the siege of montevideo , then under colorado control , by blanco forces .
the palace houses an extensive collection of rare manuscripts , mughal and rajasthani miniatures , mughal carpets , costumes and textiles , arms and weapons , objects of art and royal paraphernalia .
turn left out of the arcade and you ' ll find bond street , the smartest shopping street in london with more ' by royal appointments ' than any other ! here you ' ll find the chicest clothes and the most expensive jewellery around with famous names like aspreys , tiffanys and cartier wherever you look .
one of the idols inside the sanctum sanctorum is small and would be taken with the kings on their hunts .
the fine white sands of puri beach and the roar of the breakers rolling in from the bay of bengal have fascinated visitors throughout the years .
the british sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country .
the recorded history of mysore city , which was a principal town of a district , goes back to 10th century ad .
among the finest examples of some of the earliest buddhist architecture , caves paintings and sculptures , these caves comprise chaitya halls , or shrines , dedicated to lord buddha and viharas , or monasteries , used by buddhist monks for meditation and the study of buddhist teachings .
the area encompasses stunning residential property and the most exclusive shops in london .
the boat race held in the backwaters of karala is another event that just should never be missed .
there are some portraits of the rulers of jodhpur also displayed at jaswant thada .
milne , peter o'toole , george orwell , peter sellers , cecil beaton , william blake , dirk bogarde , richard burton , john le carrn , agatha christie , john constable , edward elgar , sigmund freud and even charles de gaulle to name a few ! despite its beauty , hampstead remains relatively untouched by the tourist hoards and therefore a perfect spot for a day out of central london .
high points for the visitors include shimla , which used to be the 'summer capital ' of british india and still one of india 's most important hill stations .
the historicity of the nagaur city can be traced back to 4th century ad .
from the city agra , there are taxis , tempos , auto rickshaws , and cycle rickshaws to carry one to the agra fort .
being a true representative of nagaland kohima depicting the most exotic tribal culture .
on the banks of riveryamuna , raises the crescent like agra fort .
it was later in 1303 and in 1323 that two stronger earthquakes left a significant impression on the structure .
the tower was assembled using wooden scaffolding and small steam cranes mounted onto the tower itself .
the buland darwaza , an imposing gateway 54 m high was built to commemorate akbar s aligarh the famous university town is a center of islamic studies .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
in 1294 , the delhi sultans stormed daulatabad and looted its wealth , paving the way for eccentric mughal ruler mohammed bin tughlaq , who took over the fort in 1327 .
ruzaphema is a place ideally suited for leisure and recreation with its colorful bazaars and a wide range of tribal handicrafts which are exquisite in their style .
the fort dates back to the time of the qutub shahi kings , though its origin has been traced to earlier periods , to the reign of the yadavas and later the kakatiyas .
commonly referred to as bharatpur , the park is a delight for bird watchers .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol adheres to western standards .
kalindikhal trek is a gradual ascent of 10 kms , there after , the trek negotiates kharapathar ( 8kms ) at a height of 5456m , before comping at kalindi base ( 5590m ) , a further 6kms down .
arunachal pradesh was made a full fledged state on 20th february , 1987 .
much protuguese architecture still exists in the cochin .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
old fort - it is believed that the pandavas had built their capital , indraprastha at the place where the old fort stands today .
the weather is very pleasant and though a far cry from the misty himalayan hill-stations , nandi hills has a very pleasant ambience about it a nice place to chill out in if you are in the vicinity .
no village is more involved in preserving india s priceless skills than orissa 's raghurajpur with its thatched , brick , houses on high plinths with sit-out platforms and artists busy at work .
pleasantly tropical throughout the year , trivandrum s proximity to the sea makes for weather that has its variations .
today 's politics are dominated by president hugo ch vez , the leader of a coup attempt in 1992 , who formed his own party and , drawing on the support of millions of disaffected poor people , won the 1998 presidential election .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
this is known variously as ' abingdon green ' , ' college green ' and 'st stephen 's green .
the national parks of kanger valley and indravati , the sanctuaries of udanti , sitanadi , barnawapara , achanakmar , gomardah , tamorpingla etc .
it was one of the first bastions of british power in india .
cruises too form part and parcel for the higher end honeymooners in india .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
swain 's lane splits the cemetery into two sides .
the hindu temples with profuse carvings and the imposing gopurams of the southern temples are an eloquent testimony to the fine art of indian architecture .
srirangapatna s mausoleum , the gumbaz , which sports ivory inlaid doors and the famous tiger-striped emblem , is also nearby .
victorian women 's rights campaigner , mrs. pankhurst was one of those once held in the cells .
opened in 1991 , nicco park is the first amusement park of calcutta , 9 km from the city .
it is gratifying to note that the cascade of the coonoor river near wenlock bridge on the coonoor-mettupalayam road named after law continues to bear the same name .
emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
next to the bridge you can still see the pillars , which supported the old 1860 's london , chatham and dover railway bridge .
the collected items in the museum could be far better classified because a lot of the really good pieces of art need to be hunted for .
as soon as construction began in 1630 , masons , craftsmen , sculptors , and calligraphers were summoned from persia , the ottoman empire , and europe to work on the masterpiece .
man mandir palace is built by raja man singh with vast halls and carved stone screens .
the designer of taj mahal was ustad ahmad lahauri .
this is the picture of the hanging gardens of babylon in most people 's minds .
during the times of shivaji there were 600 people living in this fort. today over 300 people resides here .
visitors will find the ruins of the once powerful vijayanagar empire , the sculpted wonders of belur and halebid , the awesome mausoleum of bijapur and much more within easy reach .
along the banks of the pushkar lake is the former residence of raja man singh of ajmer , man mahal .
jaipur bazaars are vibrant and the shops are full with colorful items which include - handicraft items , precious stones , textiles , minakari items , jewellery , rajasthani paintings , etc .
listen to this long-standing myth about matunga , the mini-madras of bombay .
north of kullu is a beautiful spot , in the midst of pinewood with high mountains towering above it .
the township is situated at 350 meters above mean sea level .
however , the calculation carried out by the french engineers showed a difference in level of 10 meters between both seas .
jaipur is also , an important junction with direct services to most places of tourist interest .
the volumes of construction in itaip are also impressive .
the 28.73 sq km lake and wetland was artificially created by the maharaja of bharatpur in the 19th century .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , incorporates information on tours and travels to hill stations in india covering the whole itinerary of places for the nature lovers .
trivandrum is well connected by major states and national highways with the rest of southern india .
once inside all locations are clearly signposted , unlike the street outside , which is very pedestrian-unfriendly. .
there has been a bridge on this spot since the 1760 's , though the present one is about 100 years younger .
the exquisitely crafted throne was taken to delhi by shah jahan and was looted by nadir shah and carried away to persia .
the best season for river rafting in from april to september .
the bird sanctuary of kumarakom , which is spread across 14 acres , is a favorite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist s paradise .
the city bus service is efficient but very crowded .
on the sprawling lawns here , is a beautiful marvel temple with beautiful carving of fruits , flowers , leaves and plants which have been reduced into stone true to nature , and are distinctive specimens of the plastic arts .
its inhabitants , an amalgam of great wealth and abject poverty , are swept into the endless maelstrom of activity that characterizes this bombay city of dreams .
one of the factors that have gone in to make bangalore the fifth largest city in india today is its mild and healthy climate .
this rule also applies to phones , radios and cassette recorders , and unfortunately there are no facilities for leaving such items outside the court .
during your tours to historical monuments in bardoli in gujarat you must visit the bardoli satyagraha ashram located in surat in gujarat , india .
but for people looking for a quiet , walk of solitude down one of the beaches can opt for the quieter version of the coastline in the form of the famous baga beach in goa , india .
ooty is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
most of the buildings within the agra fort are a mixture of different architectural styles .
according to experts , while india has good thermal soaring effects during the summer months , and offers hill soaring almost round the year , the soaring in the winter months although too static is also good for having gliding .
jaipur is 260 km from delhi and 240 km from agra and forms the most chosen tourism golden triangle of delhi , agra and jaipur .
light cottons are the best clothing , except in winter , when light woolens are required .
in 1830 , venezuela became a sovereign state , led by jos pa z .
the massive taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates .
a walk through one of these inns is often like stepping back in time , especially if you happen upon a barrister in his obligatory eighteenth century court attire .
trekking and skiing in the himalayas , white water rafting on the ganges and beas , camel and jeep safaris in the deserts of rajasthan , paragliding in himachal , watersports in goa and scuba diving in lakshadweep and andaman are just some of the options available to the adventure seeking tourists .
between the staircase ramps are symbols of the zarathustrian god ahura mazda , and carvings representing the different nations of the world , from egyptians and armenians , to babylonians , assyrians , and medians .
this garden has some of the rare and imported rose variety .
another impressive temple is the gavi gangadhareswara temple , an unusual cave temple .
there is a lot one can pick up in handicrafts , but beware of the touts who lead you into shops that overcharge and pay a hefty commission .
more than 3 , 000 tibetans have made dharamsala their temporary home , living mostly in mcleod ganj .
nagarhole national park s dense deciduous forests are the habitat of the tiger , leopard , gaur , elephant , sambar , chital or the spotted deer , wild boar , pangolin , langur , macaques and about 250 species of birds , including the magnificent malabar pied hornbill and the great black woodpecker .
as part of the alterations , marble arch , which was originally the entrance to the palace , was moved to a new position at the corner of hyde park .
delhi is the main gateway city for northern india with a modern airport and all major international air carriers operate direct services to delhi from various centers in the world .
bombay is seen , to the teeming masses that flock there to live and work , as a place where opportunities abound .
in front of the main entrance is a platform , which is popular for use as a spot for taking photographs. you will find many couples sitting on it with the taj mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit .
this place does not confine its activities to golf alone but the day hikes and excursion through the woods and villages are other attractions for the tourists and nature lovers .
these temples have been highly acclaimed by countless tourists , historians , archaeologists and art lovers , for the architectural wonders they are .
these dolls are collected from different parts of india as well as from other countries of the world. these dolls reflect the tradition and culture of the region from where they come .
these powers were gradually relaxed during the 1980s .
the original palace was built by rja man singh and additions were made later by sawai jai singh .
imphal , the capital of manipur , is the centre of all cultural , commercial and political activities .
the tower which houses big ben has been called by many names ; one of the most popular is st stephen 's tower .
there are some 20 other mammal species including the snow leopard and over 150 species of fauna .
langthabal is small hillock is situated about 8 kms from imphal on the indo-burma road and houses an old historic palace and neatly planned temples .
located at kumarakom 16 km from kottayam town , the vembanad lake , an enchanting picnic spot and fast developing backwater tourism destination , provide boating , fishing and sight seeing experiences that are truly exhilarating .
one can see 100 kms of countryside and the sahyadri hills in each direction .
keibul lamjao national park is the only floating national park in the world .
once known as an important seat of administration , kangra the capital city of chand dynasty tells a story of glory , which has faded into history .
the subways below marble arch are also a favorite pitch for beggars .
right from the beginning the popular success of the tower manifested itself in a multitude of varying forms : miniature models , bottles and candles , bracelet charms and watches , paper cutters and lamp stands .
as the sun rises over a holy river or the sea , the air echoes to the pilgrims ' chant of mantras. lingaraja temple an eternal dawn ritual asking for the benediction of the gods .
it is 145 ft in height from ground level to the top of the dome .
many of these are common with the rest of the country ; some are celebrated with a distinct touch that carries the flavor of the city .
space flight , dinosaurs alive , dynamotion , life in water , a world of insects and reptiles , walkthrough aviary , butterfly corner , convention centre , four seminar halls , mini auditorium , musical fountain and many other things of entertainment .
it flourished during the 16th and 17th centuries when it became one of the finest cities in india and then waned during the 18th century , when the marathas challenged the might of the mughal empire .
built by maharaj gang singh in memory of his father , the lalgarh palace is situated 3 km north of bikaner city .
over the years , stone house was subsumed in flurry of construction for the office of the secretariat .
with the mall and ridge being main attractions , climbing beyond scandal point and ridge beyond shimla a 2 kms walk takes you to the jakhoo hill , with a panoramic view of shimla and hanuman temple .
the gigantic ashoka pillar , of polished sandstone stands 10.6 meters high , dating back to 232 b.c. .
pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of india .
the most important ruler of this dynasty was maharaja avanti-verman. .
regents park london-england also , during the summer the open-air theatre produces a variety of plays .
andhra pradesh is also the home of the colorful lambanis and banjaras - nomadic tribes and some of them turn up as pavement sellers offering their highly ornate long skirts and silver jewellery .
it is the idea that the king of gods is capable of unroofing the temple if he stood up that fascinated poets and historians alike .
backround s shades are subtly reflected on the white marble surface of the taj mahal , which changes its color and complexion accordingly .
bangalore is the principal administrative , cultural , commercial and industrial centre of the state of karnataka .
given the height of the statue and the width of the harbor mouth , this picture is rather impossible than improbable .
manali is a small hill town in the valley of kullu .
yusmarg is an ideal picnic spot and the nilnag lake can be visited from here .
originally built in mud by kempe gowda in 1537 , the fort was extended and fortified by tipu sultan .
the first and foremost in the list of beaches is the anjuna beach which can be the source of immense pleasure and satisfaction for honeymooners in india with its flea market and the wild parties .
in the royal greenwich observatory a simple line on the floor defines where east meets west and the prime meridian , a hypothetical line joining the north and south poles , also signifies greenwich mean time from which all other time zones are measured .
down river from devprayag , the ganga changes into a pool drop river .
during the period from 1819 to 1830 , john sullivan 's contribution was , apart from laying the route to ooty , that he built the first house called stone house in this place .
the devastating earthquake that wreaked havoc across gujarat on the 26 th of january 2001 destroyed a large proportion of the monuments and residential buildings in many parts of the ahmedabad , while others suffered major structural damage .
after a serious fire damaged windsor castle in 1993 the queen allowed the palace state rooms to be opened to the public for the first time , to help pay the windsor castle repair bill .
the jade green water of the wular lake swirl gently around a curious bubbling spring in the middle of the lake .
perched on undulating terrain of low coastal hills near the southern edge of the indian mainland , clean and green , thiruvananthapuram , which was previously called trivandrum , is an ancient city with trading tradition dating back to 1000 bc .
shanti vana is the cremation site of jawaharlal nehru .
dalhousie is a gateway to the chamba valley .
the sunny , southern coastal town is named after the local goddess mangladevi .
geographically , it is closer to the temple of artemis .
guwahati has several places of historical interest .
this tomb was built by the nawab of avadh for his father .
best month to visit october to march is the best period to visit the city .
his artistic pursuits were also many and he made rich gifts to the hindu temples .
both decks are accessible for wheel chair users .
history comes to life in mexico : the scars of recent history are still apparent .
do n't expect to see the queen 's private apartments , garden or swimming pool , and you certainly wo n't meet her majesty .
in 305 bc , the antigonids of macedonia who were also rivals of the ptolemies , besieged rhodes in an attempt to break the rhodo-egyptian alliance .
the rare collection of olagranthas - palm leaf manuscripts also makes it a place with historical value .
nathmalji-ki-haveli , one very interesting fact about this haveli is that its two sides were carved by two brothers .
jaipur , jodhpur , jaisalmer and bikaner in the state of rajasthan were stronghold of hill forts and series of palaces .
a little away from the city is ramohalli , a picturesque picnic spot , that boasts of a 400-year old sprawling banyan tree , spread over 4 acres .
boats to the sangam , used by pilgrims and tourists alike , can be rented at the ghat immediately east of the fort .
a little further along is the dove , a pub close to the hearts of locals and londoners ; it was here that the traditional song rule britannia was composed by thomas arne in the 18th century .
bangalore is a cosmopolitan city , where different cultures and customs exist .
car rental companies will rent vehicles with drivers .
the scenic countryside of kuttanad with its shimmering waterways also has a rich crop of banana , cassava and yam ; this is perhaps the only region in the world where farming is done 1. 5 to 2 m below sea level .
the canal remained in good condition during the ptolemaic era , but fell into disrepair afterwards .
while agra s significance as a political centre ended with transfer of the capital to delhi in 1634 by shah jahan , its architectural wealth has secured its place on the international map .
along the south coast are the sites where many of the great events in lord krishna s life took place .
this fountain dates back to 1861 and has the inscription ` ` the fear of the lord is a fountain of life . ` ` see also the other inns of court middle and inner temple and gray 's inn .
the upper deck is best for wild life viewing when taking a boat cruise , but better turn up half an hour early to get the best seat .
camel safaris are only held in rajasthan in india with the key zones to reach out being , the traditional and historical townships of jaisalmer and bikaner .
through the night just one dismounted sentry stands guard .
ajmer the city where the dargah of the great sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage .
surinam is bordered by the atlantic ocean , the marowijne river , french guiana and brazil .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
visitors are welcome in both the lords ' and commons ' public galleries when the houses are sitting .
it is only accessible through a confusing rabbit warren of smelly underground tunnels , or by dicing with death crossing the road .
demand for tickets to buckingham palace is high .
nearest railhead from daman and diu is delwada ( 9 kms ) connected via veraval by metre guage line .
cast iron made its debut in the construction industry in 1779 with the bridge at coalbrookdale in england , followed in 1803 by the pont des arts bridge in paris .
belgravia is , on the whole , fairly quiet and not the sort of place you ' d undertake a raucous pub crawl but is a delight to stroll around on a sunny afternoon .
even today , childless women come to the dargah or tomb to tie strings on the jails ( screens ) as prayer to the saint .
keeping in your seat as the camel raises or lowers itself to the ground , can appear at first to be a losing battle .
there is also an indian national army museum depicting their struggle for india 's independence , the museum is open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. .
the kullu valley is very beautiful - a lush , green valley with the sparkling beas river running through it and the snowcapped himalayan peaks forming the background .
visitors are not allowed inside the house but when the house is in session , visitors may take permission to go inside and watch the proceedings of the house .
unfortunately , indoors climbing is not found in india but in western countries .
ahmedabad has a large number of mosquies but the most famous is the sidi saiyad mosque built in 1571 ad , which is acclaimed for its splendid filigree scree , framed in the ten semi-circular windows .
national museum has an excellent collection bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
the nearest airport is lengpui airport 45 kms from aizwal , there are regular flights of indian airlines from aizwal to calcutta .
chandigarh is a union territory and is directly under the administration of the indian government .
places of visit and presence include the island hotel in the middle of lake fatheh sagar , which is once again built out of an old palace .
with the intricate network of mountain rivers flowing through a myriad of different colors of rocky gorges , forests , flowers and high mountain villages , the garhwal and kumaon hills provide ideal locales for the perfect water adventure .
the calmness of place provides a soothing effect to the tired tourists .
ponadu chootu padayani is the annual festival at the ancient bhagavathy temple in meenachil taluk .
the nilgiris in the south have the picturesque anantagiri , udhagamandalam , madikeri and munnar. mount abu in rajasthan , panchgani in madhya pradesh , mahabaleshwar in maharashtra are the other hill resorts for quiet sojourn .
one can also see the hari parbat fort , jama masjid , walk in the old bazaar and over one of the seven old bridges on river jhelum and view from outside , the shrine in honor of shah hamdan .
the place also has a large auditorium .
bhopal on the main line is connected by rail to major cities in india .
vemana samadhi is a famous tourist place in this district .
with the decline of the ancient khmer empire , angkor wat was turned into a buddhist temple and was continuously maintained , which helped its preservation .
the kabul valley proutonsa ( poonch ) , pajapuri ( rajauri ) kangra , jammu , kisthwar and ladhak , one after the other threw-off their allegiance to the rulers of kashmir .
the sight of people trying to balance a series of pots on their heads and doing so with consummate ease is quite a sight .
dharamsala over looks the plains and is surrounded by dense pine trees and deodar forests .
kurukshetra , the scene of the epic battle between the kauravas and the pandavas , is situated in haryana .
before madame tussaud had established herself in london , her collection of wax figures toured all around the country in wagons and caravans .
the trek starts at netwar , passes through osla , and ends at harkidoon .
full independence was achieved in 1975 .
covering an area of about 81 hectares , the complex consists of five towers , which are presently shown on the cambodian national flag .
just below these cenotaphs are the real graves , in a dark and humid crypt filled with incense .
two-thirds of brazil 's population lives near the coast , meaning that life is a beach for locals and tourists alike .
nagaland lies to the south of jorhat in assam , and is home to myriad tribes and sub tribes .
when the persians expanded their ancient kingdom to include mesopotamia , northern india , syria , egypt , and asia minor , the king could not control his vast empire without the help of local governors or rulers - - the satraps .
the london eye river cruise experience departs conveniently from the london eye pier located next to the london eye itself .
it is one of the most spectacular and popular attractions in the world , drawing visitors from far and wide .
guru shikhar is the highest peak on the mount abu which provides an excellent view of the whole town .
nakki lake , is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills , beautiful parks and is a must visit place .
after his death , it is mostly the weak rulers except his grand son jayaditya , who ruled the valley .
mysore is the former capital of the erstwhile wodeyars and the state of mysore .
the places on offer a kaleidoscopic variety of locales covering a vast span from the cold , freezing climes of srinagar with the attendant romantic boat rides to a dip in the salty arabian sea in the golden beaches of a gothic goa .
this garden has some exotic and rare flower plants .
since then , the canal , which stretches 167 kms across the egyptian desert , has been widened twice .
by road gujarat has the best network of roads in india .
meanwhile , a third potent force emerged during the 1980s , in the form of organized drug traffickers ( known as cartels .
manali town is a romantic 's delight nestled comfortably between the dhauladhar and the pirpanjal mountain ranges .
the bahai temple - completed in 1986 , the bahai temple is set amidst pools and gardens , and adherents of any faith are free to visit the temple and pray or meditate silently according to their own religion .
the beaches of goa and kerala also offer other sporting opportunities like water skiing , wind surfing and sailing .
famous for the million year old fossils , the wood fossil park is a geological landmark of the thar desert , jaisalmer .
ahmedabad is linked to bombay , delhi , calcutta , chennai & other major cities in india by rail .
history has it that thiruvananthapuram had once been the part of call romans and jews , arabs and christians .
presently being restored , this palace is particularly beautiful at night with the floodlights lit .
with founding of mysore dynasty in 1399 ad by yaduraya , mysore has seen 24 rulers .
you can take a look at some of the 81 hindu temples in the area .
mizoram is a land of great natural beauty , an endless variety of landscape with rich flora and fauna , clusters of whispering pines , and quaint villages with houses on stilts .
india gate is surrounded by green grass lawns and trees .
chamunda devi temple has artistic carvings on its lintel , pillars and the ceiling .
along the coastline , dandi has been known as the salt centre and it gained a place of pride after the famous dandi march satyagraha , in 1930 , by mahatma gandhi .
the arts and crafts of rajasthan state are amazing .
during the month of kartik ( oct . / nov . ) , devotes throng in large numbers here to take a dip in the sacred lake .
the lahore gate , the main entrance , has some emotions and sentiments attached with the indian independence as the tricolor flutters on the top of this gate .
tour to mandi kinnaur is a land of rich green valley , ripe orchards , vineyards , snow-covered peaks and cold desert mountains .
the founding of present day bangalore is attributed to the magadi chieftain , kempe gowda , who laid its foundations in 1537 .
the places of tourist importance in ooty are the avalanche , the western catchment , the government botanical garden , st stephen 's church , elk hill , doddabetta ( 2 , 592 meters above sea level ) , snowden peak on the kotagiri road that commands a view of mysore , the lake ( formed in 1824 by sullivan ) and the boat-house , wenlock downs , parson 's valley , kalhatty falls and glenmorgan .
national science center is located near pragati maidan .
it is a phenomenon that is proof of the technical excellence of ancient architects , of their knowledge of astronomy combined with great architectural skill .
beautiful kovalam , endowed with a sheltered bay making it safe and pleasant to swim in during the off-monsoon months is no doubt , one of the best places to be visit .
while the other festivals are localized , the khajuraho dance festival attracts visitors from around the world .
this can be obtained from indian missions abroad or the immigration authorities in mumbai , calcutta , delhi , and chennai or on arrival at port blair .
a summer palace of the former maharaja of travancore , set along the lake , is a hotel and a fine place to stay .
an indian travel destination sponsored tour to dehradun can be a rejuvenating and reenergizing stint for a tired pair of legs or for an overworked executive .
the house of lords is in recess from 28th july 2000 , until 27th september 2000 .
after two years of fighting , the aztecs wee defeated .
make no mistake about it , with its ease of access , waterfront location and sense of history greenwich is the place that no self-respecting visitor can afford to miss .
nagaur is 43 km from khimsar , it is famous for the cattle fair that is held every in the month of january .
navaratri is a nine-day long festival honoring the manifestations of shakti , which represent action ( durga ) , wealth ( lakshmi ) and learning ( saraswati ) , in mumbai the festival is celebrated with elaborate dandiya and garba dances .
snow , which is a scarce commodity for indians in the northern india so naturally hill stations of india is the place where they run for the chill and soothe themselves .
in 1954 , surinam , with the netherlands antilles , became an autonomous region within the kingdom of the netherlands .
agartala is renowned for its excellent hand woven cotton fabrics ; indeed weaving is a widespread , household occupation among the tribal people .
bangalore is directly connected by rail with ahmedabad , mumbai , calcutta , cochin , delhi , guwahati , howarah , hyderabad , mangalore , chennai , mysore , nagpur , tiruvananthapuram , vasco-da-gama ( goa ) and other cities in india .
directly outside his windows there were 39 steps leading from the patio to the lawn ! the room that houses the actual clock mechanism is full of victorian mechanical wonders that whiz and band each time the clock strikes .
hanuman dhara is located on a steep hillside ; it is approachable by a flight of 360 steps .
the diwanekhas entirely unique in its concept is a tall vaulted room with an intricately carved central pillar and capital supporting a platform that once held the emperor s throne .
udagamandalam considered a sanatorium and hill resort by the europeans , has come to be like any other district .
its success is unquestionable , as is its popularity with tourists and londoners alike .
all visitors are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
iskcon temple - completed in 1998 , this is a complex of temples. built on a hilly place this temple is dedicated to the lord krishna and was built by the hare-rama hare - krishna cult followers .
given the risk he faced , he was granted major financial advantages and solid guarantees , which allowed him to collect his profit as soon as the work was begun .
built enormous and lavish in 1911 to replace the old palace in the fort that burned down , the maharaja s palace is an extravagance of domes , arches , turrets and sculptures .
mandi s several old temples with fine stone carvings are noteworthy .
gujari mahal is a marvel of 15th century architecture ; the palace was raja man singh s gift to his favourite queen mrignayani .
the usual season is late december to early march , depending on the snow conditions .
the imposing white edifice was consecrated in 1679 ad , and continues to be an important place of worship .
visit also the achalgarh fort famous for its shiva temple .
stone gargoyles , peacocks , monkeys , elephants and british lions are placed among the buttresses , domes , turrets , spires and stained glass windows ; the terminus looks more like a cathedral than a railway station .
construction of the city began under kings cyrus the great ( ca . 550 bc ) and darius i ( ca . 520 bc ) to possibly serve as a ceremonial and spiritual capital of the persian empire .
balsamand lake & palace is an artificial lake and is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 ad .
built in the 12th century , a fine example of dravidian temple architecture , krishnaraja wodeyar renovated the chamundeswari temple in 1827 .
the fort was originally built as protection , was later used by the royal family as the residence in the 18th century .
the indian architecture tradition is the living vital art from assimilating in it the influence of the various dynasties which ruled over it .
the best season of visit periyar wildlife sanctuary is from the monthes of october and june .
the athenian sculptor pheidias was assigned for the ` ` sacred ` ` task , reminiscent of michelangelo 's paintings at the sistine chapel .
the valley soon fell a prey to mongol and turkish raiders , free booters and foreign adventurers .
jaipur is one of the best connected cities in the region with very frequent bus services .
once the royal summer retreat of the pleasure loving nawabs of junagadh , the imposing chorwad palace and the lovely expanse of beach before it combine to make chowrad unique .
haryana has a network of 43 tourist complexes , named after birds .
taxi and coach transfer is available from both international and domestic arrivals .
palampur has a quite a reasonable accommodation and is well connected by rail , road and air .
the jal mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties .
aizawl , the scenic capital of mizoram , is a religious and cultural center of the mizos .
hazrat miran was the governor of ajmer at some point of time in history .
the islands of andaman and nicobar in the bay of bengal and lakshadweep in the indian ocean are virtually untouched and are some of the best spots for scuba diving and snorkeling .
nearest underground stops : cutty sark - for maritime greenwich dlr .
london bridge connects the city with southward .
adi shankaracharya , one of the greatest gurus of hindu spirituality established his ashram in kancheepuram which is 75 kms from chennai .
one can enjoy a pleasure ride on road flanked by green tea beds on either side .
chamarajendra wodeyar and later the maharani regent commissioned a number of important buildings , besides putting some order in the city 's by now visible growth .
visitors to this country have the choice of a relaxing resort experience , a cultural city break or a wealth of adventurous activities .
also in the area is the museum housing the mysterious sun boat , only discovered in 1954 near the south side of the pyramid .
the ocean floor has been since gradually rising , eventually giving birth in 1927 to a new island , north of what remains of rakata .
the nehru memorial has a collection of gifts and many other items which he possessed .
this hill station is called as ` ` the lofty hill ` ` which was flattened up for the construction of a monastery in the year 1716 .
the north-east monsoon brings light rainfall during the months of september , october , november and december .
this temple , dedicated to lord krishna , was built in the 8th century ad under the patronage of the pallavas .
pandikuzhi is one of the popular picnic spot of periyar , situated between chellarkovil and the tamil nadu state border .
dawki is a border town , 96 kms from shillong gives you a glimpse of bangladesh .
malad , a station on the suburban section of wr , is the nearest railhead .
the number of buddhist scholars who went to china from kashmir is larger than that of those who went from other parts of india .
you can hire a private car from a travel agent or car rental company to move around agartala .
though expensive and exclusive , heliskiing ultimate adventure sport is fast gaining popularity .
teen murti house is the erstwhile residence of jawaharlal nehru , india s first , prime minister , is now a museum .
palampur is famous for its agricultural university and tea gardens .
the terrific taj mahal happens to be the most popular monuments in the entire world .
however , its true beauty lies in the architectural and artistic details which will forever remain unknown .
however , the ancient name of the city was parsa , or pars ' city , hence the greek name persepolis .
the london coliseum is also just down the road on st .
fatehpur sikri is about 39 km from agra .
the colossal height of the tomb , along with its pyramidal appearance gives taj a soaring effect .
more than 300 years ago , job charnock , an english tradesman set up a trading post on the banks of the ganga along the three-village nucleus .
montevideo , the capital , contains more than half of uruguay 's population .
throughout the valley , he built very fine and massive temples , out of which the world famous sun temple ( martand ) built on mattan karewa , reminds us about the grandeur and splendor of the times when their builder ruled the state .
according to the magazine , ` ` the true marvel of itaip , though , is its powerhouse . . . a single building that puts out 12 , 600 megawatts - - enough to power most of california .
the statue was occasionally decorated with gifts from kings and rulers and the most notable of these gifts was a woolen curtain ` ` adorned with assyrian woven patterns and pheonician dye ` ` which was dedicated by the syrian king antiochus iv .
beautifully laid out gardens and parks , attractive monuments and marvelous heritage hotels , once the residence of maharajas are testaments to the rajasthan of yesteryears .
this past account of the valley , its culture and traditions , rise and fall of various kingdoms , victory and defeats of the people have been noted carefully , yet critically by the sons of its soil .
when napoleon invaded egypt in 1798 , his pride was expressed through his famous quote : ` ` soldats ! du haut de ces pyramides , 40 si cles nous contemplent .
this palace is to the western side of ` ` kukkara halli lake ` ` and located approximately 4 km from mysore palace .
allahabad is a city of mixed culture of hindu , muslims , jains and christans .
an 18th century palace harmoniously blending the rajput and the mughals styles of architecture .
the wildlife parks and sanctuaries spread across the country , offer a fascinating diversity of terrain , flora and fauna .
the country is home to the world s highest waterfall , angel falls ( about 16 times higher than niagara falls ) , and the world s longest and highest cable car , whisking tourists from the university town of merida to the 4765m - ( 15 , 629ft - ) high pico espejo .
the archaeological survey of india also has a guesthouse with spacious well furnished rooms at a very low rate .
it grew into an important power centre under the delhi sultan sikandar lodi , who shifted his capital from delhi in 1504 .
this desert city of rajasthan is famous for its attractions which include - forts , temples & camel festival .
amber palace is a classic example of mughal & hindu architecture .
polo owes its origin to the british , even though it was first played in india .
however , the most convenient railhead is guwahati ( assam ) , which is very well connected to the rest of india .
kufri is an important tourist place because of its closeness with shimla .
dry , searing winds heat up the ground and make it difficult to venture outdoors .
the darshan to the temple done , we headed out of the city towards the mountain temple of jyotiba , another special pilgrimage spot .
a starkly remote terrain and scenery makes nagaland , a place worth a visit for those adventurous in spirit .
you re bound to enjoy the lagoons no matter what but mosquito repellent , drinking water , cottons and sun protection gear will probably help you enjoy them better .
rajasthali , rajasthan government handicrafts emporium and khadi bhandar are the major shopping places in mount abu .
the hindu epic mahabharata refers to it as agraban , part of brij bhoomi , the homeland of lord krishna .
one of the most impressive palaces constructed during the last half of the 19th century the lallgarh palace defies the bleak and rugged reality of the harsh thar desert around bikaner .
these andaman and nicobar islands are the paragon of beauty and present a landscape full with scenic and picturesque extravaganza .
mumtaz and shah jehan were married in 1612 and , over the next 18 years , had 14 children together .
but the credit for its blossoming into the city that we are familiar with goes to the long spell of rule of krishnaraja wodeyar , the saint king and prince among builders , the silver jubilee of whose reign was celebrated in 1927 .
london has the gift for creating cities within a city , which is why it does n't really need a mayor .
another important place of visit is murikkady which is a panorama of cardamom , coffee and pepper plantations .
madras now called as chennai is popularly regarded as the ` ` gateway to the south .
the land is mostly mountainous with the himalayan range along the northern borders crisscrossed with ranges running north-south. .
indulge in adventurous water sports or daydream on secluded , golden sands .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
at kallar it is tropical and at burliar-the next bus-stop as one proceeds from mettupalayam-it is sub-tropical. .
it was another feat of accomplishment when the elevator to the third floor was added , traveling 160 meters to the top level .
the weather and the climate of arunachal pradesh are quite distinct from the rest of the country .
jahangir mahal , within the fort complex built in the 17th century to commemorate the visit of emperor jahangir .
spend lazy evenings in bed or swing to the folk dances .
osian is 27 k.m. from khimsar and was a well-known trading center between the 8th and 12th centuries .
he became a very powerful person , more so when the emperor jahangir married his daughter noor jahan .
the sadar club was built by the british about 100 years ago and the ambience is wonderful especially if you like a round of golf .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is one of the largest sanctuaries for birds in india .
the belur math shrine represents a church , mosque and temple when viewed from different angles .
the beauty of thar desert is best described with the help of sam sand dunes , located at a distance of 42 km from jaisalmer .
there are about 25 ghats in mathura today , of which the most important is the vishram ghat. where according to legend , shri krishna took his rest after killing kansa .
himachal has camps at sarchu in lahaul besides built accommodation , and tents are available at sangla and kalpa in kinnaur and kaza in spiti part of lahaul & spiti district .
idukki as a hill station in india is much sought after for its wildlife treasure keenly followed by other attractions like tea plantations , rides on elephants and a repository of rich spices , too .
this complex is elegantly build and is one of the largest temple complexes in india .
h.b grigg , in his a manual of the nilgiri district in the madras presidency ( 1880 ) , describes him as a friend of the native .
an equestrian statue of chhatrapati shivaji and statue of swami vivekananda have been installed here .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
bindusagar lake situated to the north of the lingaraja temple is a lake called the bindusagar lake adding grace to bhubaneshwar and attracting many tourists .
trains from delhi , gwalior , jhansi and the south arrive here , it is closest to most good hotels , and has a tourist information counter .
india is a vast country with a rich cultural heritage and a diverse historical background .
prince khurram , as sahajahan was known before he became the mugal emperor , was a handsome twenty year old man , when he was betrothed to mumtaz .
it is said that the great hindustani classical musician mian tansen once sang raag deepak ( song of fire ) here and with the intensity of his music set the place alight .
it is the one and only wonder which does not require a description by early historians and poets .
the grand store brims with every name known to the fashion world from small couturiers to huge , successful concerns .
hill palace museum has an interesting collection of paintings , antique temple carvings and other royal artifacts .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor .
the modern state of jammu and kashmir covered an area of 86024 square miles ( prior to 1947 ) extending from 32deg 78 ' to 36deg 58 ' n and from 73deg 27 ' to 80deg 72 ' e .
13 km away from aurangabad lays one of the country 's most impressive and majestic forts daulatabad , commanding the view from atop a pyramid-shaped hilltop .
this garden is very well planned and has artificial streams .
it was under a tree in the garden that keats wrote ode to a nightingale .
the aztec empire controlled vast territories from the yucatan peninsula to the pacific , with over 370 individual nations under their authority .
the world headquarters of the theosophical society , formed to facilitate and encourage the study of comparative religion .
being situated very close to the sea , cochin has a moderate climate .
indraprastha , according to legends , the city founded by the pandavas in the times of the epic mahabharata ( circa 1500 b.c. ) , was located near the old fort that stands on a large mound overlooking the river .
raghurajpur is famous for their patta chitra painting , this artists village is 14 kms from puri , makes an interesting excursion .
sahid minar is the tall minar of bir tikendrajit park in imphal commemorates the indomitable spirit of manipur martyrs who sacrificed their lives fighting the british in the anglo-manipuri war in 1891 .
they are both typical little market towns but tall coconut palms sway in the cool breeze , cashew plantations dot the surrounding countryside and scenic little houses line the streets .
american samoa , guam , us virgin islands .
heavy showers are experienced during the months june , july and august due to the south-west monsoon .
it was a well known 9 day feast held every year in the month of may .
on nag paharthe snake mountain the panchkund and the cave of saint agastya are located .
brazil 's landscape is as diverse as the people who inhabit it .
jaipur is surrounded by hills and dotted with forts , and is one of the links to the famed golden triangle of north india along with delhi and agra .
at the greenwich gateway , next to the tourist information centre in cutty sark gardens , a welcome to visitors to the town is given , backed up by an exhibition on historic greenwich .
in 1846 the satirical magazine , punch , coined the term ' chamber of horrors .
there are several historical monuments in jodhpur , rajasthan , india that are worth visiting during your tours to this region .
a team of constructors , who had worked on the great metal viaduct projects , were responsible for the 150 to 300 workers on site assembling this gigantic erector set .
architecture in india is a pulsating art from which continues even today .
covent garden is now home to numerous interesting shops and market stalls as well as a myriad of street entertainers who perform at every opportunity .
a large number of people , many from outside the region have thus made the city their permanent home .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
temple at somnathpur is embellished with a profusion of finely sculpted friezes and panels .
the lalbagh botanical garden , spread over 240 acres , was laid by hyder ali and developed by tipu sultan .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight .
panhala-vishalgad is a popular trekking route ; it takes trekkers 24 hours to reach vishalgad .
the temple dedicated to 14 gods and goddesses , temple , church and the with burmese statues of the buddha are the other places worth a visit .
once the tranquil hilltop retreat of meditating rihis , mount abu was considered to be a holy spot , inhabited by no less than 330 million deferent gods and goddesses .
a charming village like atmosphere pervades the streets and lanes of barnes due in part to the conspicuous absence of a tube station .
and it was the imagination of poets and ancient historians that blended all these elements together to produce one of the world wonders .
at the end of the kullu valley , 32 km from manali is the famous rohtang pass ( 3978 m ) which offers some of the most spectacular views of the awesome himalayas .
at the road junction next to the houses of parliament is parliament square .
straddling the equator in western south america , ecuador has territories in both the northern and the southern hemispheres .
built during the same period as the university , its importance is heightened .
the terrain that india provides from the deserts to the beaches , to the mountains tests not only the skills of the realists but also their mettle .
until independence , the city was the seat of the maharajas of mysore , a princely state covering most of karnataka .
it was in 1818 that two youthful assistant collectors of coimbatore , whish and kindersley , made it to the made it to the nilgiris plateau .
in a stereotypical camel safari in india , the interested traveler can look out for the rare golden brown sand dunes in the middle of a camel safari , undertaken by an authorized tour operator .
a platform for some of india 's traditional classical dance forms , the dance festival is annually held from 21st to 27th february at the nishagandhi open air theatre in the kanakakunnu palace grounds .
there is a tourist dictionary written for ordinary citizens .
when it was built , the great pyramid was 145.75 m ( 481 ft ) high. over the years , it lost 10 m ( 30 ft ) off its top .
a fire in 1834 destroyed all but westminster hall and the jewel tower across the road , so the rest of the present building is surprisingly new , having been built in the period 1840-1860 to a mock-gothic design .
the ming emperors , having overthrown the hun dominance and expelled their mongol rulers of the north devoted large portions of available material and manpower to making sure that they did n't return .
murud is today popular for its alluring beach , whispering casuarinas , coconut and betel palms , and an ancient fort .
today , polo is not just restricted to the royalty and the indian army , many companies and firms too patronize the sport .
this is not surprising because the region was an important centre of pallavan culture long before the british came here and the traces of which are to be found in the numerous old temple .
situated between knightsbridge and chelsea , beautiful belgravia is the salubrious and wealthy area which houses many of the capital 's most eligible figures ! belgrave square and its surrounding streets is also the location of many embassies .
the northern side is occupied by writers ' building .
as you delve into the darkest chapters of our grim and bloody past , recreated in all its dreadful detail , remember : everything you experience really happened .
palika bazaar another famous underground shopping centre is located in delhi .
the palace is eye catching by its whiteness which comes from the granite stone brought from italy for the construction .
by air there are flights from kolkata ( daily ) and guwahati ( triweekly ) to agartala .
arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the palace , if you live in the uk , otherwise arrangements can be made through your embassy .
shah jahan s cenotaph is higher and to the left it has a pen box inscribed on it , which symbolizes a male ruler .
there is always cool , fresh breeze that makes even the warmest months bearable .
the present population of ooty is 78 , 277 and comprises of todas , badagas , tamils , keralites and mysoreans .
visit the sheesh mahal or the hall of victory glittering with mirrors and ascend the fort on elephant back .
a thrill minute adventure sport where split-second decisions can literally make or mar , heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
this was done by erecting a wooden frame on which sheets of metal and ivory were placed to provide the outer covering .
fateh prakash palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture .
the tiled floors , curved wooden ceiling , beautifully crafted doors and specially created pools add to the ambience of grandeur .
the himalayas which have nearly fourteen thousands glaciers are one of the largest continental areas under ice .
arunachal pradesh , one of the most sparsely populated state of india , covers an area of 83743 sq. kms .
it is an ideal getaway for picnic while traveling between dalhousie and chamba .
this temple is considered to be an example of the excellent architectural skill and acumen of the craftsmen of ancient india .
in lothal excavations hae brought to light an ancient port complete with dockyard measuring 218x37 meters connected to sea through river bhagava .
it consists of arched vaults which are located on checkered cube-like foundations .
the original machines in the west and east piers ( up to the first floor only ) were provided by the french company roux combaluzier lepape , using hydraulically powered double looped chains and rollers in side guides .
amidst a refreshing and aesthetically appealing environment , the park offers a one-stop solution integrating office , production , commercial , residential and recreational needs in a single location .
it stretches from the towering himalayan range in the north , to the foothills of the terai and the gangetic plains down to the east .
bangalore is well connected to delhi , mumbai , chennai , hyderabad and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
rai praveen mahal is set in landscaped gardens , a brick palace for the poetess and musician rai praveen , who captivated raja indramani in the 17th century .
it has some beautiful bungalows owned by mumbai s elite for weekend gateways .
kumarakom enjoys a tropical climate almost round the year .
queen mary lived here as a widow and her son , edward viii told her of this intention to abdicate in this house .
these marvel of carvings built between 11th and 13th century a.d. are dedicated to the jain tirthankars .
there is a small picturesque island that was once the pleasure resort of a great king of kashmir , sultan zain-ul-abidin. .
john sullivan , the man who founded ooty , planted this oak over 150 years ago in front of what was then his residence , stone house .
adventure tourists may like to undertake winter trekking from november to march when the higher reaches of the district are snow clad and access to most of the villages is on foot .
arunachal pradesh mainly consists of verdant mountainous ranges sloping to the plains of assam , and has the largest area in the north-east region .
ganesha chaturthi is one of the most important festivals celebrated in mumbai .
loktak lake and sendra island loktak lake , 48 kms. from imphal , is the largest fresh water lake in eastern india and this lake is like a miniature inland sea .
early excavations at kausambi revealed an important buddhist site where the buddha himself came to preach .
god a own country with its psychedelic sunsets complete with palm trees swaying to whatever music the wind chooses to play , the wafting aromas of the land of coffee , spices and coconuts , the bastion of communism , a literate people whose friendliness is only surprised by their curiosity for more .
of these , the todas , who are vegetarians , tall and fair , have dwindled in number .
the orrisa state museum has a rich collection of sculptures , coins , copper plates , stone inscriptions , lithic and bronze age tools , rare manuscripts written on palm leaves , traditional and folk musical instruments .
the central market building in paris , les halles , was erected in 1853 by victor baltard and felix callet .
the botanical garden is maintained by the horticulture department of the government of tamil nadu and has a very wide variety of plants that include different types of roses , imported shrubs , rare flowering plants etc .
the entire city is spread over a 12 km long ridge commanding the view of terraced hillsides and cultivations .
the old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
chandigarh is well linked with its principal gataway city , delhi , by frequent super fast trains .
disaffected members of anapo ( alianza nacional popular ) formed a guerrilla movement known as movimiento 19 de abril ( m-19 ) , which initiated a 15-year-long guerrilla campaign against the government and acquired other left-wing groups .
mohammed bin tughlaq renamed it daulatabad , the city of fortune and made it his southern military operations base .
jama masjid in delhi is the largest mosque in india , and was built by shah jahan in 1956 ad .
in his left hand , he holds a scepter inlaid with every kind of metal , with an eagle perched on the scepter .
the two rivers along with the mythical river saraswati meet in this holy city creating the sangam ( confluence ) also known as the triveni ( meeting of three rivers .
the region around bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations , the two notable ones being shivaganga ( 4599 ft. high ) and savandurga .
there is also large number of birds , which can seen from an exclusive bird watching point and also nice sunset can seen from the fort of park .
the horse marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
the statue was so high that visitors described the throne more than zeus body and features .
uniquely the interior has two royal boxes , originally installed to keep king george iii and his son , the future king george iv apart after they had a blazing row in the foyer .
saraswati festival , also known as nanaratri , dussehra is held between september and october .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
in agra there are a number of exquisite buildings like moti masjid - a white marble mosque akin to a perfect pearl ; diwan-am , diwan-e-khaas , musamman burj - where shahjahan died in 1666 a.d. jahangir 's palace ; khaas mahal and shish mahal .
throughout much of this early 19th-century period , the future uruguay was occupied by portuguese troops from neighboring brazil ; interventions military and otherwise by its larger neighboring powers were to become a recurrent feature of uruguay 's political history .
kirti mandir , where mahatma gandhi was born , today , houses a photo exhibition on the life and times of the mahatma , a library , a prayer hall are other memorabilia .
on diamond harbour road , the gurusaday museum has a small but rich collection of the folk arts and crafts on undivided bengal .
false gateways , which may be appropriately called water pavilions , have been constructed in the centre of the north and south sides .
bhakra dam is symbolic of resurgent india 's plenty and prosperity .
the background is not constant ; it changes its color and texture more than often , and the taj is always presented in a variety of tints and moods .
the dance is usually performed on specially put up stages in connected with temple festivals .
there are five of the domes ( kalash ) and they were established in 1914 .
some of the historical monuments are the mehrangarh fort , jaswant thada , sadar market , umaid bhawan palace , maha mandir temples and the osian jain temples .
perched at an altitude of 4000 ft. above sea level , aizawl is accessible from shillong , guwahati and silchar , by bus , by road and by car .
punjab suffered the most destruction and damage at the time of partition of india .
the more expensive and modern hotels are in the civil lines area .
jakrem is a popular health resort having hot springs of sulphur water , believed to have curative medicinal properties .
the dwarf orange trees and numerous rose plants are special attraction in the garden , the fountains add to the beauty of the place .
skand and some other puranas rank ayodhya as one of the seven most sacred cities of india .
manali is referred to as the ` ` cradle between the lesser himalaya .
the kanha national park is served by an extensive network ( a little over 700 km ) of generally well-maintained roads .
the use of iron in architecture spread widely , and became one of the most original and spectacular forms of creative expression of the nineteenth century , because of its lightness , its transparency and the elegant way it rises into the air , coupled with its brute strength , its restrained power and its extreme tautness .
mizoram perched like a lone sentinel on the tip of the north eastern border of india ; idyllic mizoram is an amalgam of the former north and south lushai hill districts .
tipu sultan preserved the ganesha temple as a testament to his religious tolerance .
chennai is well connected to delhi , bangalore , mumbai , and hyderabad and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
udaipur is the historic capital of former kingdom of mewar and now the administrative headquarters of udaipur districts .
local buses , taxis and rickshaws are available for local journeys in silvassa and up to vapi and bhilad .
brazilians enjoy a good party whatever the circumstances .
referred to as the venice of the east by travelers from across the world , this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life .
in ancient times the region was called dakshin kosala .
one of the finest bird parks in the world , bharatpur bird sanctuary ( keoladeo ghana national park ) is a reserve that offers protection to faunal species as well .
bikaner is located in the north of rajasthan popularly known as a camel country .
it was due to the untiring efforts of maharaja gulab singh ji ( the founder of dogra hindu dynasty in kashmir ) that the state took its present shape and form in the 2nd half of the 19th century .
sangam , as the confluence is called , is the venue of many sacred fairs and rituals , and attracts thousands of pilgrims throughout the year .
in the more recent time agra came into prominence when sikandar lodi made it his capital city in 1501 .
all the while , sullivan was pepping his superiors in madras with letters about the unusually temperate and healthy climate in the nilgiris and its suitability as a sanatorium .
the national gallery of modern art in mumbai exhibits the work of prominent contemporary indian artists .
so vast are the falls and their setting that it is difficult to grasp their true grandeur and for this reason , they are perhaps best seen from the air .
a swiss engineer , m. riggenback and major morant of kotagiri road fame prepared an estimate of 1 , 32 , 000 pounds ( currency ) for laying the rack railway and floated a company called the rigi railway & co ltd .
the story so far allahabad finds reference in ancient hindu scriptures including the vedas , puranas and the epic ramayana as prayag , the confluence of the three holy rivers of yamuna , ganga and saraswati .
the badagas , who speak a mixture of kannada and tamil , are said to have migrated from mysore 400 years ago .
albert hall contains a fine collection of sculptures , paintings , decorative art objects , natural history specimens , an egyptian mummy and a celebrated persian garden carpet .
one such beach is alibag , an evergreen favorite of the sun and sea freak , a resort that you can reach in an hour by catamaran or a three hour drive from mumbai .
rio is the hottest of destinations , particularly around carnival time .
the line was worked by madras railway , to start with .
one of the main markets of delhi , chandni chowk was once lined with beautiful fountains , but today the place is very crowded and congested .
big towns are not usually on the route though there is no definite route that you have to adopt .
another building , the ( palace of winds ) allowed the ladies of the harem to catch the cool evening breeze .
located on the banks of the vembanad lake , the bird sanctuary is spread across 14 acres .
popularly known as baby taj , this is the tomb of mirza ghiyath begh , who was wazir or chief minister in emperor jahangir s court .
the people after a long time heaved a sigh of relief. from 1155 - 1339 , the kashmir rulers remained busy only in intrigues , debauchery , and mutual quarrels .
museum of kerala history is one of the best looks into the history of kerala .
the matangesvara temple , the only temple in this group , where worship continues , dedicated to shiva and the chausath yogini temple , presently in ruins and believed to be the oldest temple in khajuraho .
one word of warning : make sure you ' ve eaten before you go or you may well end up exceeding your baggage allowance on the way home ! if it 's fashion you like , your first stop should be harvey nichols .
the last hindu ruler of kashmir was udyan dev .
when daniel defoe visited westminster hall during his tour of 1724 , he said it resembled a barn .
andrew-by-the-wardrobe ( so called because of it 's proximity to wardrobe court which used to house the king 's goods and chattels .
the royal lake was built in 1660ad by rana raj singh , from here ; one can have a spectacular view of the sunset with beautiful ` torans ` or arches and ` chhatris ` adorning the embankment .
krakatau ( krakatoa ) volcano was located on the island of rakata , 40 km off the west coast of java .
once the largest princely state in india , hyderabad had its own flag , currency , railway , and postal system , before being incorporated into the indian nation .
the grey granite sacred bull , nandi , is the main attraction after which the temple has been named .
14kms from as a barrage is dispatcher , an aquatic complex with a swimming pool , located at the foothills of shivalik hills and on the bank of river yamuna .
karnataka also has some of the most interesting historic architecture in india .
3 kms north of the city , the caves have been carved out of a steep spur of the sahyadri range and a great view of the city , serenity and a piece of history are what you get to take back from here .
drive through the famous gajner wild life game sanctuary where you can see & photograph black bucks , chinkaras , wild boars , blue bulls and other animals in large herds .
by road agra is connected to mathura ( 56 kms ) , delhi ( 203 kms ) , gwalior ( 118 kms ) , jaipur ( 237 kms ) and several other major cities .
frolic of apes , graceful elephants , fluttering of wings & singing of birds , migratory birds flying into the hills , the majestic tiger enforcing his authority , all invite you to carry back home a little what the heaven is made of .
ooty is used to be popular summer and weekend getaway for the britishers during the colonial days .
vantawng is 137 kms from aizawl are the largest and most magnificent falls in mizoram , the vantawng falls surrounded by a lush forest teeming with bamboo groves and this is a place of awe - inspiring beauty .
he then sang the monsoon raga , megh malhar invoking the rains and so doused the flames .
the best time to visit agra is between november and march .
colorful pavilions house ornate statues of the god ganesh and the nights come alive with the folk dances - dandiya and garba - before the festival culminates with the idols ceremoniously taken in procession to be immersed in the sea on chowpatty beach .
above the tombs is a cairene lamp , the flame of which is supposed to never burn out .
bangalore is one of asia 's fastest growing cities .
the bull temple has been built by kempegowda .
there is a huge fort , which has beautiful buildings including lavishly built palaces , mosques , temples , baolis or reservoirs , water systems , fountains , open terraces and pleasure garden of the mugal times .
the ajmer sharif located in the oldest part of the town and is one of the most important historical sites that you must visit during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india .
it is possible that more valuable data would be found , when extensive surface diggings are completed .
rohtang pass also happens to be the entry point to the lahual spiti valley , another beatific locale , which is home to the sonapani glacier for the benefit of honeymooners in india in himachal pradesh .
the fort of khimsar has of lot of diversity in its architecture .
the major city in punjab is amritsar , the holy city of the sikhs. chandigarh , a new planned city , was concieved and built in the 1950s to serve as the capital of new punjab .
the city also became a hotbed of political activity during the struggle for independence , hosting the first indian national congress in 1885 .
at the entrance of the harbor of the mediterranean island of rhodes in greece .
it is virtually unaltered today and is one of only two complete buildings remaining from the medieval palace of westminster .
however , the buildings open to the public have some superb architectural sights .
saha jahan s cenotaph is to the left and is higher than that of his beloved which rests immediately below the dome .
these trees housed some of the most exotic birds , all of which added to the breathtaking environs of the taj .
chandigarh is one of the youngest cities in india and the main languages spoken are hindi and punjabi .
the aryan influence over this area dates back to the period before the rig veda .
other illusionary effects have been accounted for in the geometry of the tomb and the tall minarets .
lincoln 's inn fields is a tranquil free filled square to the west of lincoln 's inn .
amber fort was the ancient capital of the state .
while shopping in aimer , one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing rajasthani culture and style .
the kalindikhal trek promises to be a rare experience , even for the most seasoned trekkers .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
aizwal with guwahati , silchar & calcutta are connected by indian airlines flights to major cities in india .
fatehpur sikri was built by the mughal emperor akbar during 1564 a.d. .
kenwood house with its outdoor summer concerts and fine collection of art is worth a visit as is the nearby spaniards inn .
to the south there is huge and beautiful kalyana mantap where festivities take place .
over the centuries , the golden sand stone fortress witnessed many battles between the bhattis , the mughals and the rathors of jodhpur .
jaisalmer is famous for mirror work embroidered articles ; woolen pattu and other items made of good quality locally produced wood , wooden boxes , trinkets , silver jewellery and curios .
situated 60 kms from bangalore , at a height of 1478m above sea level , is the nandi hills resort .
the state of karnataka , formerly known as mysore , is a state of strong contrasts , with the modern industrialized city of bangalore at one extreme and expanses of rural farming areas at the other .
the metal monument is 14 meters high and weighs 50 tons ; the amazing thing about this monument is that it still rotates smoothly about its bearings .
it has long been believed that the colossus stood in front of the mandraki harbor , one of many in the city of rhodes , straddling its entrance .
the other shopping centers are new market , ritz market , bazar bungkawn , thakthing bazar , burma lane and solomon cave .
50km from kottayam , aranmula is the site of the splendid onam festival boat races , usually in early september .
you can also see the royal decree of prince jehangir advising rai singh to immediately proceed to delhi as emperor akbar is dying .
the white mosque is the tomb of saint haji ali , a wealthy muslim who renounced the world and proceeded to mecca .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
running water should be used for washing , and washing should be done well downstream of campsites .
while on wildlife tour to the periyar national park one can easily spot large herds of indian elephant and the nilgiri langur .
martin 's lane ; this house the equally impressive english national opera and english national ballet .
kalhan correctly represents him as a savage cruel king , whose approach became known by the sight of thousands of vultures , crows and the like in the sky , eager to feed on those being massacred by his encircling army .
on november 17 , 1869 , the canal was officially inaugurated by khedive ismail in an extravagant and lavish ceremony .
thus the city has a fairly large number of people who are retired from active life and others who are here for exclusive pleasure seeking .
snake boat processions are taken out on the first two days and competitive boat race takes place on the third day .
the jama masjid was built by shah jahan and dedicated to his favourite daughter jahanara begum. it is surrounded by the crowded bazaar , which is interesting to wander through on foot .
this hill station in india is another congregation point for nature lovers , lovers of sylvan surroundings and the religious sorts with a swathe of historical monasteries located here .
the west coast state of gujarat is not one of india s busiest tourist destinations although it is quite easy to slot gujarat in between mumbai and the cities of rajasthan .
delhi was the focal point for the first war of independence in 1857 .
emile nouguier and maurice koechlin , the two chief engineers in eiffel 's company , had the idea for a very tall tower in june 1884 .
bhimakali temple sarahan-history of himachal pradesh .
if you are going to bikaner then do n't miss the beautiful diwan-e-khas ( private audience hall ) , anup mahal , badal mahal , gaj mandir and hawa mahal .
45 km away from the desert city of jaisalmer , desert natinal park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills .
also situated here are the high court , the government museum , the technology museum , the govt. aquarium and the jawaharlal bal bhavan .
though the main buildings are not open to the public , the chapel built by indigo jones is .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree covered hills .
nearest underground stops : marylebone , baker street , regent 's park , marble arch , oxford circus .
close to mahabalipuram and 44 kms from chennai is the crocodile breeding and research centre run by romulus whittaker .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the territory enjoys a very pleasant climate from november to march , which is actually the best time for a visit .
the monuments of interest in jalandhar include 800-year-old imam nasir 's mausoleum , devi talab , a tank ( 200-year-old ) and 400-year-old juma masjid , another tourist attraction is shiva mandir dating back to the lodhi era .
wrote one european art critic : ` ` ancient india has nothing more worthy of its civilization , than the grand remains in kashmir , the massive , the grotesque the elegant in architecture , may be admired in many parts of india , but now here is to be seen , the counterparts of the classically graceful , yet symmetrically massive edifices of kashmir , and in beauty , and position are immensely superior .
during your tours to historical places in gujarat , india you must visit dandi that is a tiny place on the seaside .
ina museum has on display photographs , articles , records and other memorabilia related to the indian national army .
the ground floor is divided up into sumptuous leather upholstered booths , whilst downstairs the ambience is slightly calmer with plenty of room and a feeling of exclusivity .
most of the state stands on the high deccan plateau which stretches east some 800 km. from the western ghats .
situated near the gateway of india , it was designed in the indo-saracen style to commemorate the king s first visit to india .
mumbai is india 's busiest international airport and is served by all major international airlines .
the sarcophagus is oriented in accordance with the compass directions , and is only about 1 cm smaller in dimensions than the chamber entrance .
ooty , this beautiful botanical paradise was first brought to the public eye by john sullivan , collector of coimbatore district in 1819 .
adjoining madame tussaud 's is the london planetarium .
as with trekking , mountaineering and other sports , river rafting too has been classified and graded in terms of degrees of difficulty .
only 5 kms from the capital town silvassa has one of the most beautiful vanganga lake and island garden , dadra where songs of more than 25 hindi feature films have been pictureised , proves its points .
in chicago in the united states , steel started to be employed to erect buildings of enormous height .
that 's more than the turnover of the next three largest centers , new york , tokyo and singapore combined .
other attractions in the itinerary followed by india travel destinations are the buddhist center of worship , tawang monastery and the immensely popular parsuram kund .
dera baba bharbhag singh place has famous gurudwara where thousand of sikhs visit every year to receive the blessing of baba bharbhag singh .
as a result , most of the rajput maharajas followed suit , building palaces for themselves here , and each summer mount abu saw a giddy social whirl , with cricket , golf and dancing at the rajputana club - - and much political intrigue at the british residency .
writes sir charles elliot in a book called ' hinduism and buddhism ' : ` ` for some two centuries after gautam 's death , we have little information as to the geographical extension of his doctrine , but some of the sanskrit versions of the vinaya ` ` , represent him visiting mathura , north-west india and kashmir .
in agra the main shopping areas are the sadar bazar , kinari bazar and munro road .
on the corner near parliament square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a member of parliament wants a taxicab .
rajkot is mainly known for the handicrafts , bead and mirror work , tie and dye fabric ( bandhani ) , silk embroidery and appliqu work .
as her children had died young , she transmitted the crown to sangramraj , son of her brother udairaj , the ruler of lohara ( poonch ) .
over a period of time ahmedabad has consolidated its position as a vibrant business and commercial city but is also famed as an academic centre with a number of premier institutions of higher studies located here .
this palace was built for the third princess during 1910-11 and is beautiful to view .
the mughals were the descendents of two of the most skilled warriors in history : the turks and the mongols .
though the badagas were essentially agriculturists , they are socially , educationally and even economically advanced now .
accessed from allahabad by taxis or private cars , you can also reach kausambi by a daily bus from the leader road bus stand .
the interior of the mausoleums comprises a lofty central chamber , a crypt immediately below this and four octagonal corner rooms originally intended to house the graves of other royal family members .
rajasthan is the safest state in india in terms of law and order ; it offers to its tourists a safe and secure environment .
the walls and pillars of the temple are very delicately and intricately carved and depict scenes from hindu mythology .
thousands gather at these holy shrines during festive occasions .
colaba causeway in downtown mumbai is another great area for shopping for shoes , clothes , bags and everything you can think of and much that you can t .
since age 's humans have a lust deep in their heart to fly like a bird in the vast blue sky , to some extent we humans are able to quench our this thrust by taking up the adventure of aero-sport to fly in open skies .
home to pandit jawaharlal nehru the first prime minister of independent india it witnessed many important landmarks in the freedom movement .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
kashmiries are justly proud of the literary glories of their land .
on the first floor facing eastern direction there is ` ` durbar hall ` ` or court yard .
the mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of bhandeshwar & sandeshwar temples .
legend says the mirror was also used to detect and burn enemy ships before they could reach the shore .
in all 28 kind of rare , semi precious and precious stones were used for inlay work in the taj mahal .
jaisalmer , jodhpur and bikaner are known for the sand dunes but the most popular among them is jaisalmer .
though the nilgris formed part of coimbatore district , it was separated into an independent district in 1868 .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
a multitude of reigning dynasties , of the great rajput clans of the pratiharas , kacchwahas and tomars have left indelible etchings of their rule in this city of palaces , temples and monuments .
at the heart of it was the trading post at the mouth of the essequibo river , which was controlled , along with other posts established later on , by the dutch west india company .
auli offers a panoramic view of himalayan peaks like nanda devi , kamet , mana parvat and dunagiri see mingly only a snowball throw away , auli offers perfect skiing conditions .
nandgaon is famous for its ganapati temple and the annual fair held in honor of this elephant headed god every february .
the climate of bombay is moderate , with summers hot and winters pleasant. the monsoon lasts from june to september , and rainfalls heavy .
the early 13th century saw the first stone bridge , which for many centuries was the only means of crossing the thames in london .
on the night of 21 july 356 bc , a man named herostratus burned the temple to ground in an attempt to immortalize his name , which he did indeed .
there are up state road transport ( upsrtc ) as well as private buses plying to and from agra .
a visit to the dam is a must for the breathtaking scenery that it has to offer .
one of the finest examples of high victorian gothic architecture , it is the headquarters of the central railways and is one of the finest railway stations in the world .
the country roads are lined with bricks kilns. industrious maharashtrian women , very traditionally clad , toil side by side with the men folk at the kilns , ferrying bricks back and forth .
the best months for water sports are october and march .
the magh mela is the annual version of the kumbh and ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from makar sankranti in jan.and ends at maha shivratri in feb .
they are fairly comfortable but it is advisable to carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers especially if you are looking at budget accommodation .
over 200 varieties of birds and 100 types of butterflies can be seen in periyar national park .
babar , the founder of the mughal dynasty in the 15th century , firmly established its popularity .
restaurants in delhi offer a variety of cuisines continental , chinese , thai , japanese , north indian , south indian , mughlai to name a few .
located in the museum compound is this sree chitra art gallery featuring an eclectic collection of works by roerich and raja ravi verma .
20 km. founded in 1787 by the east india company , the main attraction of the 273-acre gardens being the banyan tree , largest in the world .
according to hindu mythology , lord brahma , the creator god of the trinity , chose a land on earth ( ie prayag ) to perform prakrista yag , at the beginning of the creation and he also refereed to it as tirth raj or the king of all pilgrimage centers .
there are local buses but you may not want to risk these and for the rest , public transportation is really quite inadequate .
in kanha national park there is always a mid-day break , so that employees may have lunch and rest and the animals may have a respite too .
62 kms from allahabad , next to the yamuna river sits the ancient town of .
it was the most beautiful structure on earth .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
fakim sanctuary is close to the myanmar border and receives high rainfall and is inhabited by tigers and hoolock gibbons .
all these are fed by snow from the himalayas and countless rivers and rivulets .
more recent archaeological excavations at the ancient city of babylon in iraq uncovered the foundation of the palace .
what is comparatively a matter of details is that vrindavan is believed to have been the stage on which krishna performed his famous romantic and sportive roles .
this huge temple complex comprises of a sabha mandap , prasad and a kund .
the powerhouse is located at the toe of the main dam , most of it on the river bed and the rest on the diversion channel .
completed in 1658 this mosque has three gateways , four angle towers and two 40 m high minarets , you can enter the mosque but take precaution to take off your shoes and make sure that you are properly dressed before entering .
the fort william was named after king william lli of england , and in the fort are a church , market , post and telegraph office , cinema , swimming pool , boxing stadium , football and firing range .
built by the british , connaught place is quite close to the new delhi railway station and a unique shopping spot .
some of these are lothal , hriday kunj , and sun temple at modhera , bardoli , kirti mandir and dandi .
a wide range of boats are available at the boat house to suit varied tastes and budgets .
india was once a collection of princely kingdoms mysore palace where feudal traditions still carry on amidst forts and palace hotels .
one of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of jaisalmer , lodurva is known for the famous jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year .
valmiki ashram is located at a height and accessible by a flight of stairs known as the stairway to heaven .
a cannon and a statue of nandi ( shiva 's mount ) are located inside the temple complex .
persepolis continued to flourish under the later achaemenian kings , until it was burned and destroyed by alexander the great in 330 bc .
india is considered the cradle of modern polo .
minjar is the most popular fair of chamba which is attended by a large number of people from every nook and corner of the district .
arunachal finds mention in the literature of kalika purna and mahabharata .
indian airlines connect hyderabad with bhubaneswar , bangalore , mumbai , calcutta , delhi , chennai , nagpur and vishakapatnam .
archaeologists are still struggling to gather enough evidence before reaching the final conclusions about the location of the gardens , their irrigation system , and their true appearance .
at prayag , take a dip at the holy confluence of the ganga , yamuna and saraswati rivers : while varanasi is a city that sings our prayers to lord shiva .
suya correctly assessed that these frequent calamities occurred due to heavy rains and excessive water of vitasta river which could not easily get out with swiftness , through a gorge near varahmulla , as the compressed passage there bad got blocked with silt and huge boulders .
the nagaland state museum is a one stop treasure house for a glimpse into naga culture through history .
his court was a centre of luxury and splendor .
sanjay gandhi national park , previously known as the borivali national park , this protected forest area is on the northern outskirts of mumbai .
visit the eastern group of temples that consist of the parasvanath temple - the only jain temple surviving at khajuraho and have an excellent sculptures on the outer walls of the sanctum , the javeri temple dedicated to vishnu .
both the princes met the fate of harsha and when our great historian kalhan completed his ' rajatarangini ' in 1149 - 50 king jaisimha , the last great ruler of the hindu times was ruling the state .
a word of warning though - the english weather is unpredictable and performances are only cancelled when it s extremely bad - so bring a raincoat and a brolly .
the shantinath temple is again comparatively modern and was built a century ago with raw materials from older temples .
if you like visiting places of both historical and religious interest , the little mount shrine is perfect , it is said that st. thomas lived and preached from this place .
here you find little shops that have been in business since well before the war , flower stalls that have been around since the 1940s , backstreet pubs that host sing-a-longs around the piano and a myriad of other charming glimpses of a london that has changed little over the past century .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
the kannadiga new year day of yugadi that falls on the second half of march or early april is celebrated with devotion and delight .
the shops at this lovely market sell traditional stuff such as traditional caps , shawls and rugs among other things .
foreign language audio commentary is available in french , spanish , german , dutch , italian , russian and japanese .
it is best to go by yourself , and bargain hard .
the youth hostel association of india runs camps at dalhousie ( chamba ) and at kullumanali .
the most distinctive features are its white willow pattern tiles of which no two are alike .
there are some lovely georgian houses and historic churches sandwiched between old warehouses , many of which have been turned into flats .
it looks very much like a tortoise and it is called ' kurma peeth ( kurma tortoise .
please insist on a mosquito net to ensure you are not vulnerable to the malarial mosquito pack light cotton clothes for summer and light woolens for winter .
renowned for its architectural magnificence and aesthetic beauty , taj counts among man 's proudest creations and is invariably included in the list of the world 's foremost wonders .
for a close look at old ahmedabad , try the of the cityorganised by the ahmedabad municipal corporation ( amc ) that takes you through the pols ( byways and alleys ) of the city , revealing crowded bazaars , havelis ( manors ) with exquisitely carved house fronts and lavish courtyards .
from the top , you get a commanding view of the entire fort complex , and were used by akbar and his consorts .
petra ( lit . rock ) was the capital city of the nabataeans , a tribe of pre-roman arabs who dominated the region around the sixth century bc .
tablets from the time of nebuchadnezzar do not have a single reference to the hanging gardens , although descriptions of his palace , the city of babylon , and the walls are found .
it is very easy to slip away here through the centuries into the grandeur and intrigues of the mughal court .
the large auditorium is used for major cultural events in mysore .
politics has also persistently been dogged by alleged and sometimes proven corruption .
today , approximately 50 ships cross the canal daily , and , with the threat of war long gone , the cities and beaches along the bitter lakes and the canal serve as a summer resort for tourists .
there is huge masonry instruments of extraordinary precision located inside the jantar mantar that can still be used accurately .
the galleries have working models in popular science , motive power , mining , metals , petroleum , electricity , communications and electronics .
taj appears as if it is about to rise into the sky .
these towers are believed to represent the five peaks of mount meru , the home of gods and center of the hindu universe .
climbers are not oblivious to heights .
a unique opportunity to explore the small villages of rajasthan , camel safari is most exciting and adventurous .
delhi , where a empire rose and fell before the dawn of history ; where citadels of emperors appeared and disappeared ; a city of mysterious eternity whose old ruins proclaim a majestic and imperial past and whose present pulsates vibrantly with the ever flowing life of india .
the legs of the throne were decorated with sphinxes and winged figures of victory .
there has been a church or abbey on this spot since saxon times and below the church can be seen a section of floor from a roman house .
apart from its beautiful beaches and unique and varied ecosystems , the gal pagos islands are home to towering active volcanoes .
king george v , who was prince of wales , laid the foundation stone of this museum in 1905 .
adjacent to the fishing nets is the vasco da gama square , a narrow walkway with little stalls that serve fresh seafood and tender coconuts .
a must see is the indian school of martial arts ( isma ) , which continues to preserve and impart training in the 5 , 000-year-old martial art of kerala-kalarippayattu. .
border disputes between chile and bolivia have been a recurrent element in chile 's history ever since .
certain climbs can often prove grueling and tough , but the magic of the beautiful landscape , the cool weather and pure air keeps the climber s spirit up .
polo facilities are on the rise and polo holidays in india too are in vogue .
elephant safaris are exciting for those in search of an experience of a lifetime .
egrets , darters , herons , teal. waterfowl , cuckoo , wild duck and migratory birds like the siberian stork that live there in flocks is a fascination for visitors .
the forest area is a tropical region , a mixture of deciduous , semi-evergreen and evergreen ` shoals ` .
the egyptians reclaimed the canal upon the 1973 arab-israeli war , and the re-opening ceremony took place in 1975 .
they maintained a good relationship with the mauryans so that they can remain independent for a long time .
there are no bars or pubs drinking are restricted to ones home or exclusive clubs .
it was in july of that years the egyptian president nasser , at age 38 , announced the nationalization of the canal at mansheya square in alexandria in front of a cheering crowd .
for one , it has been a popular hill retreat right from the days of tipu sultan who is said to have visited here occasionally .
india s camel safaris take you back in time to a more leisurely age , and make for a memorable experience .
camel breeding farm is just 8 km away from the city , at the govt. run camel breeding farm , you discover a lot about the ship of the desert .
in maharashtra marathi and konkani is spoken , english is often understood .
for centuries kashmir was the house of the greatest sanskrit scholars , and at least one great indian religion of 'shaivism ' has found some of its most eloquent teachers on the banks of the vitasta .
shopping in udaipur is always a delightful experience and it displays excellent handicrafts and works developed by local traders .
dahanu road is the nearest railhead , which is just 21 / 2 hours from mumbai .
after the decline of the guptas , several small kingdoms ruled this hilly state and established their power in its different regions .
it is important to time your trip otherwise you can get stranded once the tide comes in .
many tourists coming from delhi take the shatabdi express , which arrives at 9 am in the morning and returns at 0815 at night , allowing for a one day trip .
city palace is situated on the banks of lake pichola , a magnificant and inspiring citadel designed with the help of mirror and glass works .
meaning the ' centre of arts ' , the kalakshetra was established to train people in the traditional dance form , bharatanataym .
dalhousie is a summer hill resort par excellence , founded by lord dalhousie in the british days in 1850 as a sanatorium .
the eighth guru sri harkishan had stayed here for a few months as guest of raja jai singh .
most of the state is a high plateau and in summer it can be very dry and hot .
national art gallery and government museum has a fine collection of items in various sections of geology , archaeology , numismatics , anthropology , botany and zoology .
bhuntar gives access into the adjoining valleys of the parvati and sainj .
mysore was the only highly industrialized and progressive native state in india in steel , silk , soaps and hydro-electricity. .
panipat is an industrial town and is known for its handloom products .
at kangra itself , a fort and some temples are the only remnants of its glorious past .
he did this not merely through the introduction of tea ( which was commercialized only years after his death ) , but by freely distributing speed for a large assortment of cereals , fruit and vegetables .
the queen receives visiting heads of state at the palace and it is here that the queen holds garden parties and bestows knighthoods and other honors .
there is , firstly , the pleasure of a gentle canoe trip in a lightweight alloy metal craft , which holds two to three people .
prince of wales museum which opened in 1923 has an impressive collection of artifacts from places such as elephanta island , jogeshwari caves , and the indus valley .
the state of himachal pradesh was called ' deva bhoomi ' or the land of the gods .
fortunately for the world , the game polo survived in a few remote mountainous enclaves of the subcontinent , notably gilgit , chitral , ladakh and manipur .
this was also the year that ooty was made a military cantonment .
at the same time , sullivan laid himself open to charges that he had used his position in government to acquire enormous personal wealth .
known as tirtha raj or the king of all pilgrimages , allahabad was believed to have been chosen by lord brahma for the sacred confluence .
in front of this hall is a courtyard with a pachisi court ( a game like ludo played with dice ) where the emperor played using slave girls as live pieces .
the war , which was eventually won by the colorados , established the pattern whereby argentina and brazil became the guarantors of uruguayan independence , with the intervention of global powers on occasion britain and france in the 19th century , the usa in the 20th century .
indian travel destinations helps out honeymooners in india who are in search for a real taste of the goan life and its people .
historically this was the main centre for the maratha empire , which defied the mughals for so long , and which , under the fearless rule of shivaji , carved out a large part of central india as its domain .
agra on cross roads of national highway 2 , 3 and 11 , is excellently connected to all parts of the country .
during the monsoons , the park is a lush green haven with cascading waterfalls .
each corner edge rests on its own supporting block , applying to it a pressure of 3 to 4 kilograms per square centimeter , and each block is joined to the others by walls .
the ghost of one of its former incumbents haunts the building , although he seems to be tiring of his earthly pursuits , as recent reports suggest the figure is getting fainter as the years pass .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
khurram saw a piece of glass at arjumand banu s shop and asked for it s worth ; she replied that it is a diamond and not glass .
the victoria falls offer an inescapable closeness to the natural elements .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that serves your needs take advantage of it .
the royal orient is an experience in itself , on one of the most exotic trains in the world which takes travelers back in the age of maharajas .
but , basically , from railway restrooms to shack establishments to air-conditioned doubles with attached bathrooms , its all there .
its boundaries encompass the financial heart of london : an area where 30 % of the high-tech office buildings were built within the last ten years ; an area which houses the london exchange market where a staggering $ 637 billion worth of trading ( 32 % of global business ) takes place every day .
a visit to akbar s monument opens before one , the completeness of akbar s personality as completely as the taj mahal does of mumtaz mahal s .
if it were , you could see the cells where prisoners were held awaiting trial in the mansion house magistrates court .
most of the international cuisines are offered in the specially restaurants and outside the hotels too , there are many fine restaurant and fast food outlets .
there is a nandi ( shivas divine bull ) half buried in the hill .
important sites worth visiting in gokul include the gokulnath temple , raja thakur temple , gopal lalji temple and the morwala temple .
temples of khajuraho hold the attention of a visitor with their sculptural art , which is so exquisite and intricate , that one can not even dream of cloning it now .
from guwahati to aizawl , the capital of mizoram , it is a 506 km drive and there are plenty of buses and taxis that cover the distance .
until the war of 1982 , the rainy , windswept falkland islands were a forgotten remnant of the old british empire .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
in the field of literature , there is hardly any branch of learning which the people of kashmir had not studied , and to which they did not make their own original contribution .
over the next 100 years , colombian politics were dominated by the conservative-liberal feud , which often broke out into warfare .
the structure is one of the finest examples of architecture of its time and tells a saga of the last remnants of a dying empire .
these beautiful birds with their distinctive red beaks and facial patches fly over 6400 km from their summer retreats in siberia .
sariska national park , the second tiger reserve of rajasthan with 27 , 300 hectares holds dry deciduous forest .
aligarh city is also noted for its handicrafts and metal wares .
in the words of grieson , ` ` for upwards of two thousand years , kashmir has been the home of sanskrit learning and from this small valley has issued masterpieces of history , poetry , romance , fable , and philosophy .
nearest underground stations : canary wharf and canary wharf dlr .
a major landmark howrah bridge , now so much a part of the city that calcutta is inconceivable without it .
ajmer is a centre of culture and education , the british chose it for its prestigious mayo college a school exclusively for indian nobility .
blooming forth in perfumes of flowers , in the riot of colors of multi-hued birds , this is join bath .
the tradition of pyramid building started in ancient egypt as a sophistication of the idea of a mastaba or ` ` platform ` ` covering the royal tomb .
also known as the ' queen of hill stations ' , manali is at an altitude of 1 , 829 meters and 40 km from kullua veritable showpiece of nature with its unspoilt scenic beauty .
the futuristic park is built to exacting international standards , supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure .
jaipur is well connected to delhi , bombay , and ahemadabad through regular flights of indian airlines .
french guiana is also a land of social progress and a symbol of modernity as is demonstrated in kourou , the main french space centre .
on a weekend , the majority of ancient streets ( which include part of the roman watling street ) are empty and silent .
monsoon showers between june and september bring some respite , while winters get cold with night temperatures dipping to about 8 centigrade .
pawan hans provides helicopter service between guwahati and nnaharlagun ( itanagar ) , deluxe buses are available from guwahati .
an intricate network of thundering mountain rivers , flowing through an amazing landscape of thrilling gorges , forests , and remote villages , the garhwal and kumaon hills , in the state of uttaranchal pradesh , provide ideal settings for some dramatic water adventure .
these waters irrigate the whole garden saturating the roots of plants and keeping the whole area moist .
in the domain of architecture , the charm of kashmir , apart from its magnificent natural scenery , lies in its temples and fine arts .
visa exemptions include bhutanese and nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months , nationals from the maldives , if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days ( this includes any periods they may have spent in india up to 6 months prior to the visit in question ) , transit passengers who have a follow on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
at 10 kms. from kohima , khonoma is a village that abounds in stories of valor and courage .
the jami masjid was the first building to be constructed within the fort .
ajaipal chauhan founded ajmer in the seventh century .
april to june and october to november are the best time to visit the town .
the british government leased the islands to the east india company , who developed it into a thriving trading port .
of particular mention is the bull 's head where you can listen to live jazz ( including some world class acts ) every single day of the week .
honeymooners in india would love to partake of these honeymoon destinations in india .
113 kms. from udaipur , the fort of chittor was originally built by mighty bhim , one of the pandava heroes of mahabharata .
the lake palace at eddapaliyam , which was once the royal residence of the maharaja of travancore , and spice village are the two other better options for accommodation in the area .
today it 's a teeming metropolis , commercial hub of an old civilization seeking to find .
chennai , the gracious capital city of tamil nadu is the fourth largest metropolis in india .
a major tourist destination in the indian map today , bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century bce .
until a new building was commissioned in 1887 , there was no church on the site for almost 100 years .
an enchanting backwater destination , kumarakom offers visitors many leisure options .
imphal derives its name from yumpham , which means homestead .
the lambeth walk was actually a local market but the name later became famous as the popular song and dance routine from the musical ' me and my girl .
average temperature during the winter months range from 15 to 21 degree celsius and 22 to 30 degree celsius during monsoon .
cochin proudly boasts a rich cultural heritage , but is one of the most fast paced and modern cities in india .
the ashram is called brindavan and any public transportation will take you there , though auto rickshaws may make a bit of noise about the extra charge you ought to pay .
mysore is a major craft centre with numerous shops selling an incredible range of ivory , sandalwood , rosewood and teak carvings and furniture .
most impressive are the black and white chessboard marble floor , the four tall minarets ( 40 m high ) at the corners of the structure , and the majestic dome in the middle .
mount abu was described by someone in the 1930s as a sort of shimla of rajputana , a small colonial hill station set , surprisingly , in the desert of rajasthan .
` ` the garden is quadrangular , and each side is four plethoras long .
of the nearly 500 akbari buildings built in the bengal and gujarati traditions only a few have survived , arrayed in a band on the riverfront .
the gateways reflect a curious hybrid of different styles of architecture hindu , muslim , christian and a patent mixture of akbar s typical style .
it may also serve him as a means of transportation in his afterlife journey according to ancient egyptian beliefs .
bhojpur was founded by raja bhoj and has the ruins of the shiva temple .
the city is also a welcome departure from other large cities of india in its spacious layout and regulated life .
patan is an important weaving centre for geometrically patterned patola sarees .
first built in 1663 the site is the oldest in the world to have been continually in use as a theatre .
the saint encouraged people from india to settle in the valley .
parliament house is the center of power and politicians decide the fate of the indian democracy here .
the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
it only took five months to build the foundations and twenty-one to finish assembling the metal pieces of the tower .
writes stein : it is no longer possible to trace with certainty , the cities , and remains of all the towns and structures which owed their existence to lalitaditya .
mexico later achieved independence after the wars of 1810-21. .
a vessel from newly independent argentina was sent in 1820 to establish a permanent settlement but was driven out by a british expedition in 1832 .
calcutta has grown , remains a city of contrasts , a mix-up of light and shade , a strange medley of ancient and modern , skyscrapers and victorian edifices , heaven of the rich and the poor as seldom found anywhere in the world .
low hills along the beach offer you extraordinary views of sunrise and sunset .
till the advent of karkota dynasty ( beginning of 8th century ) the gonanda dynasty gave kashmir only two notable rulers viz. meghvahan and pravansein .
lal bagh , these 240-acre gardens were laid out during the muslim era ( 18th century ) by hyder ali and tipu sultan , 200 years ago .
large sums of money began to be turned into political power and leading politicians increasingly became tainted by connections with drug money .
it is believed that the harrappan civilization flourished for more than 500 years in the gujarat region , india. you can see well planned and organized city ruins , with rows of houses at lothal .
locked on rose street , vasco house is one of the oldest portuguese houses in fort kochi and is believed to have been the residence of vasco da gama .
following the chinese new year parade on the champs-elys ees , the chinese and french culture ministers as well as the mayors of peking and paris were present at the ` ` lights on ` ` ceremony at the tower .
shimla is connected by a narrow guage railway line with kalka 90 kms , which in turn is connected with the major cities in india .
boparais organization is situated on chandigarh shimla highway .
32 kms is north-east of jaipur , ramgarh is a favorite spot of the locals when the huge artificial lake is filled in the rainy season .
the wide street that runs from trafalgar square towards the city is the strand .
gorai and manori , a little further away , are more crowded with revelers and are famous for all night beach parties .
highlights of the 40 minute circular cruise include st paul 's cathedral , the houses of parliament , tower of london , and hms belfast , shakespeare 's globe , tate modern and the millennium bridge .
marble arch was marooned in the middle of this roundabout in the mid 19th century .
but strangely enough , harsha 's career became a record of follies and misdeeds .
the water is clear and beautiful , and the beaches at corbyn s cove , wandoor , jolly boy and cinque offer an excellent sea for swimming .
however , there is a garden which all and sundry may enjoy for part of the day .
the oldest part of the palace of westminster is westminster hall , dating back to the year 1097 .
the first of peru 's many military coups was in 1914 .
this small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic .
india harbours eighty percent of the entire population of the one hundered rhinoceros in the world .
chilka lake is situated southwest of puri and this is the largest fresh water lake in asia ( 65 kms long , 8-20 kms wide , about 2 m deep .
set in the heart of the barbican is the barbican arts centre , which boasts an art gallery , concert hall , cinema and two theatres .
georgian in character and adorned with 800 acres of rolling heath land , hampstead has always been a centre for literary activity and the intelligentsia .
some of the sculptures survived and are today on display at the british museum in london .
you are in the heart of conservative india , so perhaps you won t want to use the stripy bare more clothes the summer definitely warrants .
two river valleys are prominent features of the park 's topography : the banjar in the west and the halon in the east .
it ranked as the tallest structure on earth for more than 43 centuries , only to be surpassed in height in the nineteenth century ad .
piccadilly circus is a rather untidy , traffic-choked place , but is something of a central hub in the west end and a common meeting place .
war cemetery is a symbolic memorial raised as citation for the supreme sacrifices made by the officers of the second world war .
humayun s tomb is built in the 16th century as a memorial to the mughal emperor .
allahabad has been rich in numerous victorian and georgian buildings made in synthesis with indian architectural traditions .
the platform in the front of the mosque is of red sandstone .
you re likely to find only minor branches of government banks that do not offer facilities such as atm and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling .
while the temple of jamwa mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities , its beautiful landscape makes it an idyllic picnic spot .
cascading down the cliff is a spectacular waterfall , which at the bottom feeds a natural pool called the saptakunda .
choice of accommodation in fatehpur sikri is limited .
during the great fire of london in 1666 , samuel pepys climbed to the top of the church 's brick tower to watch the fire 's progress .
climate ahmedabad has a very hot and humid climate with summer temperatures soaring up to 45 celsius .
with vast pillared corridors and stately halls , carved ceilings , intricate mosaics , carving in ivory , stone and wood , life like paintings , antique royal weapons , maharaja s place is a must in every visitor s itinerary .
the king 's sarcophagus is made of red granite , as are the interior walls of the king 's chamber .
first occupied by the french in 1764 , the islands were quickly ceded to spain , which then ruled the adjacent territory in latin america .
tours to historical monuments in gwalior , india with the site india travel destinations can be a great learning experience apart from the thrill that you experience when visiting monuments that are associated with true stories of power , glamour and bravery .
the main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surmounted by statues representing justice and mercy .
in 1889 the tower was a colossal fairground attraction , but during the 1920s it became a symbol of modernity and the avant-garde , inspiring poets such as guillaume apollinaire , film-makers , photographers and numerous painters .
the elephanta festival held in february on the elephanta island is a festival of classical indian dance and music organised by the mtdc .
one of the largest and best snake parks in india , the chennai snake park attracts visitors of all ages .
before returning to your hotel , enjoy a boat-ride on the placid water of nakki lake studded with little islets .
trains on this line stop at the allahabad junction station in the civil lines area .
in port blair itself , one can see the cellular jail , built by the british in the beginning of the century it is now a memorial to indian prisoners .
the oldest part of the palace of westminster is westminster hall , dating back to the year 1097 .
lonavala and khandala are twin resorts just over 100 kms from the rat race of mumbai .
near coonoor , it is humid with pines , blue gum ( eucalyptus globulus ) and cypress trees .
significant historic moments of the past 2000 years are depicted through life size figures .
the annual urs at dargah of khwaja moinuddin chishti is held on a grand scale and attracts pilgrims from all over the world .
originally excavated in 191011 , the site revealed evidence of ancient habitation and was a major trade centre .
the nrityagram gallery also contains photographs and facsimiles of original writings , sculptures and ceramic murals .
other places of interest to tourists are of the order of lakshminaryan temple the vast chamba chaugan and the curator 's pride bhuri singh museum.chamba chaugan is well known for its size greenery and the fact that it remains the venue for most of the festivals and fairs of dalhousie a gem of the hill stations in india in himachal pradesh .
they were no match for the fives-lille units and were scrapped respectively in 1900 from the south pillar and shortly after 1912 from the north pillar , after a failed attempt to re-power it with an electric motor .
jeep safari , a unique aspect of adventure tourism in india is more of a western concept as the fusion of motor and nature is something which is still alien to the psyche of adventure tourism in india .
kullu valley is a larger entity with manali nestled in the valley and intersected by a gurgling stream of river beas running amidst the town .
kheria airport ( airport of agra ) is about 6 km from the agra city centre and easily accessible by taxis and auto rickshaws at nominal rates .
chamba is also famous for its local festivals .
this was the biggest contract in his entire career in business , and also the one with the greatest risk .
this claim was pursued periodically through diplomatic channels until 1982 , when an argentine force overran the british garrison and established a military base on ' islas malvinas ' , a name derived from the original french settlers , who named the islands after their home port of st malo .
the kushan kings also built many temples and vihars .
the ajmer lake , situated on the edge of desert and surrounded by hills on the three sides is separated from ajmer by nag paharthe snake mountain .
after witnessing many vicissitudes and remaining for centuries the headquarters of a small principality , mysore , for well nigh two centuries lost out to srirangapatna as a city of any consequence .
he collected meteorological data at posts installed in his various properties , and at the same time pursued his research into aerodynamics , building a wind tunnel right at the foot of the tower , and then a second and much larger one on rue bouding a television mast whose peak is at a height of 324 meters .
children are particularly fascinated by the mysteries of science .
in manglooor you may visit the tile , boat making , coffee curing and cashewnut factories , st. aloysius chapel with its 100 years old paintings , shrimati bai memorial museum , beedi factory , jain temples , fort , saib mosque and music gallery .
located at the heart of the desert , this city of rajasthan is the majestic jewel of rajasthan 's eternal crown .
the slender coconut palms standing here , there and everywhere , its never ending paddy fields , meandering lagoons and backwaters , mangroves nesting birds of a hundred varieties can peacefully calm and invigorate your mind with renewed inspiration for your vocation and life .
from its building to its destruction lies a time span of merely 56 years .
the innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in jammu and kashmir , himachal pradesh and uttar pradesh are ideal for angline and trout fishing .
upstream of the krishna river is nagarjunakonda associated with the famous buddhist scholar of 2nd century , nagarjuna .
goddess ramchandi , the presiding deity of the konark region is worshipped here and the place is ideal for weekend picnics .
therefore we have adequately accurate knowledge of its location and appearance .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is 85 kms from chennai .
today , mathura is a city of temples and shrines abustle with the thousands of devotees who come to visit the city of lord krishna .
the dewan-i-am or the place of public hearing had a wall paneled with marble in laid with precious stone which were removed during the mutiny of 1857 .
the indian himalayan range is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular and impressive mountain ranges in the world .
sauvestre proposed stonework pedestals to dress the legs , monumental arches to link the columns and the first level , large glass-walled halls on each level , a bulb-shaped design for the top and various other ornamental features to decorate the whole of the structure .
the opening hours of kanha national park are scheduled to accord roughly with the seasonal variations in climate , as well as with the length of the day at different seasons .
the gardens adjoining the palace are delightful .
foreign tourists need a special permit to visit the andaman islands .
it does , however , have one claim to fame n at 600 feet it is the second tallest building in britain , after the much prettier canary wharf tower in docklands .
installing public elevators on the tower raised many technical questions , since there had been no previous experience in elevators climbing to such heights and with such loads ; the slanting tracks with various angles further complicated the problems .
a small shaivite shrine and a temple of dattatreya situated on the top of the hill are the two important points to visit .
the largest road leading from piccadilly however is the graceful regent street designed by john nash in 1812 as a boulevard for shopping , and still used as such .
nearest underground stop : hampstead .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
the temple of nageshwarnath is said to have been established by kush the son of rama .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
the island fortress of haidar ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
for all these reasons , paraguay is definitely a country worth discovering .
the core area called the ` ` island city ` ` has the most expensive real estate in all of india .
artificial water holes have been developed in the area to attract migratory birds which are good sites for bird-watchers in winter and for general tourists in summer .
the raghunathji temple was constructed in the 17th century by raja jagat singh of kulu , india .
remnants of hinduism , buddhism , jainism and islam can still be found in ayodhya .
though alibag is great for sunbathing , going for long walks and building sand castles , the waters are not very safe for anything more than paddling .
machiya safari park lies on the way to jaisalmer , about 1km from kailana lake .
situated opposite the city market , the fort is noted for its beautifully carved islamic-style arches on the gate walls , and for the well-preserved ganesha temple within its precincts .
the kingdom was benefited from visionaries like sir mirza ismail and sir m. visveswaraya who served under the wodeyars .
by the middle of the 18th century , the royal family moved into the fort when a new zenana or ladies residence was added to the existing construction .
the people also suffered from famine , and plague as well , and a considerable section of people became victims of these calamities .
the whole mass is supported on stone columns . . . streams of water emerging from elevated sources flow down sloping channels .
although it is not known how the blocks were put in place , several theories have been proposed .
it was during her time that mahmud gaznavi twice tried to capture the valley but the fort at lohara , remarkable for its height and strength proved impregnable .
kullu has a lot of potential for the growth of tourism , as there are quite a few ancient forts , old palaces , havelis and a number of other buildings .
international dolls museum situated in bal bhawan , sector 23 , and the international dolls museum contains more than 300 dolls from nearly every country in the world .
ayodhya is pre-eminently a city of temples yet , all places of worship here are not only of hindu religion .
tea gardens at munnar the other hill states of himachal pradesh and jammu and kashmir provides a breathtaking variety of the himalayan splendor .
ajmer is connected with bus from all places like jaipur , agra , aligarh , abu road , bikaner , bharatpur , barmer , haridwar , chittorgarh , jodhpur , jaisalmer and nagaur .
khas mahal the khas mahal , where the emperor slept , had cavities in its flat roof to insulate it from the hot winds of summer .
the kangra valley is one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalyas .
nishagandhi dance festival held in february each year , ( this festival ) pays tribute to indian classical dance .
fort william , victoria memorial , raj bhavan , palladian villas and the botanical gardens , the busy streets of shyambazar , college street and kalighat , bookshops , art galleries , coffee houses all are part of calcutta 's varied and vibrant shades , the birthplace of rabindranath tagore and cradle of the indian renaissance .
correctly , the rest of the state is kashmir but in practice this title is reserved for the beautiful vale of kashmir , a large himalayan valley in the north of the state .
with a lot to offer the avid tourist including incredible deccan mughal architecture , the most pleasant feature of aurangabad is its inhabitants .
you could arrange fun day trips or get away on a weekend .
it is said that mumtaz mahal on her deathbed had herself asked her husband to create a symbol of their love for posterity .
regular bus services connect shimla with chandigarh 117 kms , kullu 220 kms , manali 260 kms , delhi 343 kms , mandi 150 kms , pathankot 380 kms , ambala 151 kms , chail 43 kms , dehradun 240 kms etc .
the royal edifices take you to the magnificence of the bygone era .
built by rana kumbha in mid 15th century , khumbalgarh is the second important bastion of mewar , after chittaurgarh .
mickey mouse , miami vice , sleepless in seattle thanks to cinema and tv , we all have impressions of the united states of america .
delhi offers a variety of public transport , yellowtop taxis and auto-rickshaws ( seats three ) are available every where .
it has several virgin attractions in protected areas such as kanger valley national park , barnawapara , sitanadi , udanti and achanakmar sanctuaries .
in 1961 , it was made an integral part of india and was a part of erstwhile union territory of goa , daman and diu .
100 km south of agartala is where excavations are still in progress .
gonanda was killed in a battle along with his son in india , and at the time of the commencement of the mahabharat war , gonanda ii was ruling kashmir .
sightseeing in the agartala stands on the banks of a small lake surrounded by huge mughal gardens .
the structure was given a thorough examination , strengthened in parts and also lightened by the removal of 1 , 340 tons of material that had been added over the years .
the lofty battlements of the agra fort cast its protective shadow over the far stretching mansions of nobles and princes built along the riverfront .
relax in the award winning brew house cafn and take time to enjoy magnificent views over london 's skyline .
a centre of attraction during ganesh festival in august-september. .
after goa was given statehood in 1987 , daman and diu was made a separate union territory .
an unbelievably beautiful paradise of mangrove forests , emerald green paddy fields and coconut groves interspersed with enchanting waterways and canals adorned with white lilies this is kumarakom .
tourism department has identified a number of new sites for creation of tourist complexes .
nartiang s greatest attraction is to be found off the small road that runs amid forest , streams and hills in a quiet and shaded glen .
the london transport museum is a great place to take the children with heaps of interactive exhibits .
the tower s golden lighting adds 20 , 000 flashing lights for a glittering performance of light on the hour .
ecuador 's coastal region ( the western lowlands ) is made up of fertile plains , rolling hills , and sedimentary basins traversed by a plethora of rivers that rush from the heights of the andes to the pacific ocean .
some tour operators organize elephant safaris between jaipur and pushkar .
no visit to the state capital shimla is complete without visiting jakhu hill .
men should wear formal cotton shirts with a tie and trousers if the weather is warm otherwise a business suit is appropriate .
for a period of 13 years from 1830 , it remained part of malabar district .
this may also include theatres , a film studio and a hotel .
india travel destinations organizes tours to idukki to let the interested souls decipher its beauty and discreet wilderness .
there are many tourist places one can enjoy seeing they are birla planetorium , state museum , zoological park , bird sanctuary and more .
the main building is built of grey marble stone and is three stories .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
khajuraho s divine sculptures are a tribute to life itself , embodying its colorful , joyous and yet sublime essence .
he was filled with an unquenchable thirst of world conquest .
it has been suggested that there are enough blocks in the three pyramids to build a 3 m ( 10 ft ) high , 0.3 m ( 1 ft ) thick wall around france .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
the 36 rooms , house around 35 , 000 exhibits from all over the world including sculptures , illuminated manuscripts , unusual collections of jade , marble statues , rare manuscripts , persian miniature paintings , chinese porcelain and other objects d'art. .
haji ali mosque is the tomb of a muslim saint who died while on pilgrimage to mecca .
the caves of ajanta can be classified into two distinct phases the earlier hinayana phase , in which the buddha was worshipped only in the form of certain symbols .
finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
shimla is the best loved hill station in india and has been a favorite since british troops set up camp here in 1819 .
the jaigarh fort is located on top of a hill .
the idea of a canal linking the mediterranean to the red sea dates back to ancient times .
the area is particularly beautiful during the monsoons , with rain washed trees and the goodly smell of wet earth making you wish you could stay here forever .
mosques of taj mahal on either side of the taj mahal are buildings of red sandstone .
the boats leave hourly from 11 : 45am , the last cruise sets off at 6 : 45pm ( october to march -4.45pm ) porters restaurant english food porters english restaurant , less than 10 minutes walk from the london eye in the heart of covent garden 's theatre land is famous for serving excellent homemade real english food .
the first lighting system was installed for the universal exposition of 1900 , but by 1925 , andr citro n set the tower alive with his colored lighting ad campaign .
tourists from india and abroad come to mysore to see the various tourist attractions and witness the special programmes arranged during the 10-day festival and in particular the last day s dasara procession .
if forts can be ornate , umaid bhawan palace is a palace we are talking about .
albert hall museum of jaipur is supposed to be the oldest museum of the state .
after the sepoy mutiny of 1857 , the capital of the central province and its high court were moved to allahabad .
puri is located at a distance of 60 kms from the state capital bhubaneshwar .
a giant electronic quartz flower clock is also in the garden of all bag .
the same brutal isolated conditions which made the great wall a triumph of engineering and determined planning make restoration problematic and slow .
he further writes that the valley contains everything which should make life enjoyable .
bandipur tiger reserve , thistiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
the stately tombs of the qutub shahi rulers lie just outside the outer wall of the golconda fort .
tipu 's palace is situated near the fort ; construction of this palace was begun by tipu sultan 's father haider ali , and completed by tipu himself in 1791 .
this is normally in the himalayan range of jammu & kashmir , himachal pradesh , uttranchal & in the eastern himalayas .
the city has grown into a busy commercial and administrative hub and an important academic centre .
the ceiling of the verandah is painted with trees , birds , beasts and geometric design .
is 180 km northeast of agartala , where you see several gigantic , rockcut images of the hindu gods shiva and ganesha carved on a sheer hillside , dating back to the 8 th century .
this showcases a minute section of the multifarious stocks of people and is only a minor glimpse of the great variety that lies in store for tourists in this unique hill station in india .
the 135ft high udaygiri and 118ft high khandagiri hills have ancient caves .
all this makes jeep safari in india earn the epithet of tourism with a difference .
the sport of white water river rafting calls for a triumph over the swift swirling river as it gushes past spectacular mountains .
the peak season in jaisalmer runs through autumn , winter and spring in the months of october - march .
the sanctuary has facilities for renting country boats for bird watching or picnics on one of the islands .
today , the massive castle still stands in bodrum , and the polished stone and marble blocks of the mausoleum can be spotted within the walls of the structure .
their action would be condemned by the international community , and nasser would eventually claim victorious .
further , at his own expense , he conducted experiments on agricultural and horticultural crops and in animal husbandry to find the most suitable crops and breeds of milch animals for future settlers .
the base is carved with floral motifs , of roses , tulips , and narcissi. some of the designs have up to 60 pieces .
the lush river valleys surrounded by snow-caped peaks , the fruit-laden orchards , gurgling streams and dense forests that echo with birdsong , evoke enchantment and delight .
recently the museum added a very interesting section of jewellery collection .
the first and foremost in the itinerary of beaches is the anjuna beach which can be the source of supreme pleasure for the newly weds with its flea market and the wild raving parties as a major honeymoon destination in india .
dahanu is lined with fruit orchards and is famous for its chickoos .
the hall contains several doorways adorned with carvings showing the king in military combat .
jaipur is color washed pink to welcome prince albert , the consort of queen victoria of england who visited india in 1883 a.d. .
to north of raj ghat is the cremation ground of jawaharlal nehru named as shanti van .
home of the british government , the building is actually called the palace of westminster , but is more commonly known as the houses of parliament , due to the two parts of government that live here .
for those who love sailing , yachting and windsurfing , there are facilities in goa as well as at kovalam beach in kerala .
jaigarh fort was cleverly built to give its archers an advantage over their targets .
the government of india office has more information on other destinations as well .
the ' ittar ' ( perfume ) is a major specialty of ajmer .
kerala enjoys unique geographic features which has made it one of the most sought after tourist destinations in asia .
literally the abode of the serpents , saputara is gujarat 's best known hill resort offering breathtaking views of the sunrise and sunset .
the best way to explore the desert of rajasthan is through camel safari , the most popular mode of desert sightseeing .
indians now form the largest racial group , with most living in the agricultural areas , particularly around demerara .
the serene , beautiful state of karnataka , extends a complete contrast to its bustling cities .
when nature is all you need to recuperate , kumarakom is undoubtedly the most invigorating. fascinating paradise in kerala , god s own country .
babar defeated the lodhis to capture not only agra but also to lay the foundation of the mughal empire .
maharastra is the perfect place to start on an enlightening tour .
today , anak krakatau ( son of krakatau ) rises more than 150 m above sea level and is two km in diameter .
while the most descriptive accounts of the gardens come from greek historians such as berossus and diodorus siculus , babylonian records stay silent on the matter .
the guru was beheaded by aurangzeb 1675 .
this center is famous for the models which can be operated by the visitor himself .
the bell is rung when a major insurance claim is made ! surprisingly the american-born poet t s elliot worked at lloyds as a clerk for 7 years .
save up all exchange receipts ( encashment certificates ) ; these are required for visa extensions and other formalities , and when you want to convert rupees at the end of your trip .
bangalore is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
the countries varied and beautiful landscape should make this goal feasible .
delhi zoo has many animals which includes the rare and exotic white tigers .
barnes has been described as a place populated by country folk who ca n't quite let go of london .
at that time this was the only entrance to buckingham palace and st james 's palace .
however , if you do get marooned , there is a small village within the fort where you can potter around .
the innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in jammu and kashmir , himachal pradesh and uttar pradesh are ideal for angling and trout fishing .
at nagarjunakonda , the excavated ruins of a buddhist settlement date back to the second and third century bc .
the principle landmark of hyderabad is the charminar ( four towers ) , the massive arch built by mohammed quli qutub shah in 1591 to commemorate the end of a devastating epidemic of the plague .
winter skiing in garhwal is now being professionally run at the auli slopes .
the ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the serpent god nagaraja .
this park was created in 1812 for the prince regent , and the original plan was to create a private development with exclusive houses , but the full scheme was never completed .
70 km from leh on banks of the indus is alchi gompa dating a thousand years back .
the sims park , established here in 1874 , has fine lawns and a collection of rare plants and trees picturesquely located along a steep slope .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree-covered hills .
the area covered by the great pyramid can accommodate st peter 's in rome , the cathedrals of florence and milan , and westminster and st paul 's in london combined .
laxmi narayana temple , which is the main temple of chamba town , was built by sahil varman in the 10th century ad .
the canals and waterworks within the charbagh provide a grand reflection of the taj , further emphasizing the imagery of the paradise .
bhubaneswar has an airport with regular flights to mumbai , calcutta , delhi , hyderabad , nagpur , varanasi , raipur and visakhapatnam .
hill stations in india provide a tourist into backpack traveling with ample of beautiful and worth-a visit-spot in the vast mountainous terrain in the sleeping himalayas of india .
the foundation of the city 's spacious and excellently planned layouts had already been laid during the administration of dewans seshadri iyer and m. visveswaraya .
khwaja saheb is also known as sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar .
the temple was constructed over a period of 30 years , and illustrates some of the most beautiful examples of khmer and hindu art .
india is a vast country and its physical boundries are spread far and wide .
one can still see evidences of the early buddhist influence in amravati and at nagarjunakonda , one of the greatest archaeological sites in the country .
estimated to hold about 15 million people ( a census is on in the years 2000-2001 ) , the city has grown dramatically in the last fifty years .
with the conflict in south africa finally resolved and the region politically more stable , tourism is developing rapidly .
boat cruises make the best option to cheek out the wilds of periyar sanctuary .
in kumaon , the kail ganga ( sharda ) flows down from the nepal border through kumaon hills .
situated at about 10 km from the ooty town , dodabetta peak is one of the most prominent view points around ooty .
treta ke thakur temple stands at the place rama is said to be performed the ashvamedha yajnya .
the early detailed descriptions of the temple helped archeologists reconstruct the building .
modern excavations in persepolis began in the early 19th century .
the structure consists of approximately 2 million blocks of stone , each weighing more than two tons .
all water sports are for those adventure seekers for whom land is not enough .
india gate is towards the eastern end of rajpath .
by the year 1885 , the time when the tower was being constructed , the use of iron and steel in bridges and building frameworks had become widespread .
in the heart of kottayam town is the much venerated thirunakkara mahadeva temple .
it is a lake surrounded by thick sholas which abound in avi-fauna. .
the bridge was more than just a river crossing though .
it was the hosting of the tricolor at red fort in delhi which marked a chapter in the history of india .
an outer casing ( which disappeared over the years ) was then used to smooth the surface .
jodhpur not only offers tangibles , in terms of what you can see and buy but also fills one with a sense of history and the splendors of an era gone forever .
indraprastha , according to legends , the city founded by the pandavas in the times of the epic mahabharata ( circa 1500 b.c. ) , was located near the old fort that stands on a large mound overlooking the river .
from 1089 to 1101 a. d . , king harsha ruled kashmir .
the chowpatty beach overlooks a bay , and turns into a magical brightly lit funfair at night with vendors , pony rides , fortune tellers , performing monkeys , fishermen and families out for a stroll .
a perfect combination of romance and beauty , udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters , poets and writers .
akshay-teej festival takes place in april but the preparations for it begin early in the summer .
indira gandhi international airport is divided into two wings , international terminal ( 20 km from downtown connaught place ) and domestic terminal ( 15 km from city centre .
the older west side was opened in 1839 and now is only open for guided tours .
the museums situated in the heart of the city at egmore were founded in 1857 .
the country can boast many attractions : grassy plains and an untamed wilderness of marshes , lagoons , dense forests , jungles , national parks , jesuit missions and the chaco , one of south america 's great wilderness areas .
the temple of goddess saraswathi , the one and only temple of this deity in south india , located at basar is a famous pilgrim place .
the colossus of rhodes was not only a gigantic statue .
spain ruled the country until the early 19th century .
the magic of rajasthan is unequalled in the world for its heritage , culture , safaris , sand dunes and lush green forests with its wildlife .
their religious rituals largely coincide with the phases of agricultural cycles .
16.5 km. from dakshineswar across the ganga , belur math is the international headquarters of ramkrishna mission .
in summer , regular cultural programmers , fashion parade , flower and fruit shows are arranged in ooty .
following a terrorist bomb in the 1980 's strict rules on baggage have been implemented .
even more bizarre is the hunterian museum in the royal college of surgeons .
khwaja saheb is the landmark of ajmer and one of the holiest of muslim shrines in the country .
his impact is evident almost every where , says mulley , who has keen interest in the history and sociology of the nilgiris .
the third one was designed by john rennie and built in 1832 by his son , after his death .
when the arabs conquered egypt , they admired alexandria and its wealth .
best known to the world for its bikaneri sweets & snacks , bikaner 's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in raajsthan 's economy .
it is widely thought that buchan dreamt up the idea of using 39 steps at a time when he was recovering from illness in a convalescent home .
the characteristics of the manipuri people vary according to geographical divisions .
the city was badly damaged , and the colossus was broken at its weakest point - - the knee .
the open hand monument , a symbol of harmony and peace , is situated in sector 1 along the main road leading into the city .
taj mahal location in the mid 16th and earlier 17th centuries , agra witnessed a frenzied buildings activity and it was during this time that the symbol of love , the taj mahal , was built .
balighai beach is about 8kms to the east of puri on the marine drive .
bairath also has relics of the mauryan , mughal and rajput periods , a mint constructed by akbar , a beautiful mughal garden and a remarkable monument with painted chhatris and wall built by jahangir are other attractions .
this palace is towards the western part of the famous mysore palace and at a walk able distance .
spend some time viewing the himalayan peaks , yamuna river , and the mussoorie valley .
a jamini roy collection and desmond doig 's pen and ink sketches of calcutta 's nostalgic landmark are also on view .
motor racing activities first started in the post independence period as many of the world war ii airstrips in different parts of the country were left deserted and enthusiasts took advantage of this to pursue this sport .
in 1989 , a four-ton service elevator was added ( also by otis ) helping to relieve the main elevators of excessive trips up and down .
to protect society ladies of a delicate temperament , the collection of unsavory characters was kept distinct from the rest of the exhibition in an area known as ' the separate room .
mayfair is also home to the museum of mankind which houses exhibits from foreign lands and the royal academy where constantly rotating exhibitions can display anything from the french impressionists to old masters .
the atharvaveda described ayodhya as ` a city built by gods and being prosperous as paradise itself .
the name idukki is derived from ` ` idukku ` ` which refers to a narrow gorge in malayalam .
the lettering , spacing and density has been customized to give this impression to the beholder .
assam the rich , green land of rolling plains and dense forests is the gateway to the north eastern part of india .
a weak and worthless man raja sahadev was the ruler then .
the uprights rest on concrete foundations installed a few meters below ground-level on top of a layer of compacted gravel .
the temple of naina devi is situated on the top of a triangular hill commanding and unparalleled view of the holy anandpur sahib gurudwara on one side and gobindsagar on other .
many canals were dug-out to increase the irrigational facilities .
hyderabad is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
it is still the highest stone tower in india , one of the finest stone towers in india , one of the finest islamic structures ever raised and delhi 's recognized landmark .
bolghatty palace became the official residence of the british .
bhavnagar is known for gandhi smriti , an institution built in memory of mahatma gandhi .
kamadgiri is a forested hill of prime religious significance ; this is believed to be the original chitrakoot .
upper bhavani is a naturalist s paradise .
cochin , regarded as the queen of the arabian sea , is situated in the southern west corner of india is a beautiful city and it s the commercial capital of kerala .
renowned artists are invited to come and perform in a night-long gala , open to the public .
kalamkari , the art of dyeing with vegetable oils and colors , still flourishes and silk sarees woven in the state rank among the most beautiful in the world .
designed by inigo jones for king james i ( 1603-25 ) and completed in 1622 , the banqueting house was originally built for occasions of state , plays and masques .
kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctury support a rich wildlife such as the panther , sloth bear , wild boar , scientifically bred crocodiles and four horned antelope .
dominating a large part of the market place is the famous royal opera house which stages world class operatic and ballet performances and is home to the royal opera and royal ballet companies .
similarly , the clock tower that houses big ben , the giant 13.5ton bell that strikes the hour , is simply called ' the clock tower ' ! the public galleries are open when the houses are sitting .
ukhrul district headquarters of manipur east , 83 kms , away is the highest hill station of the state .
arjumand banu a shopkeeper was sitting at her shop in meena bazaar , the private market attached to the harem , when prince khurram saw her for the first time .
equipped with fully computerised projectors to depict the world beyond earth , the birla planetarium is one of the most modern planetariums in the country .
these strong and powerful rulers built magnificent fortress palaces , of which the ruins are still visited .
gmvn has developed a water sports resort at asan barrage .
mexico s capital city is one of speeding vw taxis and bustling marketplaces , countered by colorful aztec dancers and panaderias with freshly baked pastries .
discover the ancient roots of religion in these age-old cities. where religion is more than an act of worship : it is a way of life .
vantawng waterfalls are 750 ft. high and are surrounded by a lush green tropical forest filled with bamboo groves .
it offers more than a perpetual holiday for - the daydreamers , the painters , the artist , the trekkers , the vacationers and more. it brings you close to nature and yourself .
amaravati is a small rural village which is predominantly hindu and with a small population of muslims too .
dry and very cold lahaul plateau is surrounded by high mountain on all sides , the great himalayan in the north .
the birth place of lord krishna , the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu s manifestations mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
gundicha mandir is located at the end of grand road about 3 kms northeast of the jagannatha temple .
although bolivia has entered an unprecedented era of political stability , it follows a record of 192 coups in the 156 years from independence to 1981 .
steeped in the splendor of its past , the ancient capital of gwalior has yet made a successful transition into a modern indian city , vibrant and bustling .
it tapers to a single room at the top , and is supported by columns with various designs .
there are only two wintering places for this rare species one in iran and other in bharatpur .
in india , the popularity of polo has waned and risen many time .
jodhpur is one of the most famous tourist places in rajasthan .
the land of braj starts from kotban near hodel about 95 km from delhi and ends at runakta which is known specially for its association with the great poet surdas , an ardent krishna devotee .
the major backwater stretches is in kottayam district , where a network of rivers and canals empty into the great expanse of water called the vembanad lake .
in bhubaneswar one can visit the finest temples - lingaraj , rajarani , mukteswar , brahmeswar and parasurameswar , these temples are some of the best specimens of the orissa temple architecture .
bara bazaar is the main shopping centre of aizawl , where all handicraft and handloom items are available .
the main shopping area is the sadar bazaar , besides kinari bazar , gwalior road , mahatma gandhi road and pratap pura .
maharaja s palace is a fine example of indo-saracenic style of architecture .
ganga is a superb river for inflatable rafts .
the mythological kingdom of nishadraj or the king of boatmen sits 40 kms away on the banks of the ganga .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you must visit the jama al-tamish that is popularly known as dhai din-ka-jhonpra. .
deeg is renowned for its palaces surrounded by gardens , tanks and fountains of artificially colored water .
during the rainy season the starting point of the trek , is purola on the purola netwar motor road .
in agra layers of history are peeled away to reveal an amazing tapestry of life - of wars waged , of great architectural magnificence and above all a testimony of the undying love of a king for his queen .
you ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many indians believe that curiosity conveys concern .
though the capital of gujarat was shifted from ahmedabad to gandhinagar , it is still the second largest industrial city in western india .
on the mahabharata war battlefield , lord krishna preached his divine message the bhagavad gita , to arjuna .
the jia bhoroli of assam has a long and glorious history of mahseer angling. the state of himachal pradesh with its many snowfed rivers are an angler s haven .
a rock portion projecting overhead and having an angle of more than 90 degrees is called as overhang .
the king repaired and restored many temples and shrines , and numerous other pious foundations were also made during his reign .
the carving of taj mahal were decorated with very precious gemstones .
the great mughal emperor akbar commissioned the construction of the agra fort in 1565 a . d . , although additions were made till the time of his grandson shah jahan .
the gandhi memorial centre , library and much more can be seen at the ashram .
with a varied terrain of wooded hills abounding with evergreen sal forests , precious timber procuring , natural and planted teak forests and mixed forests of higher and medium quality , the sanctuaries offer abundant opportunities of sighting a variety of wild life .
one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalayas , the valley , sheltered by the sublime dhauladhar hills , is green and luxuriant .
on 15th august the indian prime minister addresses the nation from here .
the santa cruz church was declared a basilica by pope john paul ii in 1984 .
many of the palaces inside the fort were later added by next generations of mughal emperors like jahangir and shahjahan .
in 1960 , archaeological department of the govt. of india began systematic excavation at this site .
mumbai is also the country 's financial powerhouse , the nation 's industrial heartland , and its economic nerve centre .
vizag , as it is commonly known , is the commercial and industrial heart of northeastern andhra pradesh .
the erstwhile garden city has now been pegged the 'silicon valley ' of india .
the grassy area is known variously as college green , abingdon green and st stephens green .
the aquarium located at the marina beach is open from 14.00 to 20.00 hours on week days and between 10.00 to 12.00 hours and 14.00 to 18.30 hours on sundays .
the lush forest cover is abundant in wildlife , and is a veritable paradise for birdwatchers and nature lovers .
one of the smallest states of the indian union , nagaland is almost unexplored , as far as tourist destinations are concerned .
the state of himachal pradesh came into existence with the partition of punjab and haryana in 1966 .
the white marble came from makrana in rajasthan and the red sandstone from fatehpur sikri .
in the evening the delhi tourism organizes a light and sound show which narrates the history of delhi in context of the red fort .
india gate is a 42m high stone arch of triumph .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honour of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
there the nearest airport is at thiruvananthapuram , which is easily accessible from kollam quite a few trains pass through kollam on their way to and from larger cities .
the predominant species in the sanctuaries are deer and the most easily sighted are the graceful little chinkara , the indian gazelle and the chital or spotted deer .
there are also steeply sloping reef walls , and coral pinnacles of knolls .
journey time between mumbai and goa is approximately 8 hours .
the guardsmen are not allowed to speak or move but make a great photo opportunity ! a changing the guard ceremony takes place daily with members of the household cavalry .
when you are caught in the snarl and disorder that is commercial street ; are suffocated settle on the town in a noisy swarm ; or are looking at the morden box-like houses that are strung out on the town in a pattern that resembles terrace cultivation ; you can t help wondering whether sullivan s .
in prince of wales museum there is a large collection of terracotta figurines , ivory carvings , statues , and miniatures .
situated at an elevation of 3566 m , the valley of harkidoon , is surrounded by glittering peaks and dense forests .
independent india has crossed 50 years and these five decades have seen many miracles .
the konark temple resembles a colossal chariot , with 24 wheels , pulled by seven straining horses , and has a three-tiered pyramidal roof topped off by a fine spire .
there are quite a few monuments in jodhpur , india .
in fact , about 75 % of the land area of rakata no longer exists .
st. church is considered to be india s oldest european church .
a prime tourist destination of kerala , cochin is boasted for its extensively emerald backwaters lined with palm trees and local villages which represent the fascinating lifestyle of inhabitants who still used these course ways as their mode of transportation .
despite attempts by the opposition to remove him , ch vez 's position remains secure for now .
as you circle the town by air or come in by train at howrah station , the bridge dominates .
this magnificent monument is set around a charbagh or four garden plans , which is split by watercourses a reflection of the persian style .
muhammad hanif was the superintendent of masons .
situated on the indo-nepal border in district lakhimpur-kheri of uttar pradesh , the dudhwa tiger reserve with an area of 614 sq. km .
down in the south marine life and the eastern ghats the communion with nature is in the nilgiri ranges having its own unique appeal .
yet the colossus earned a place in the famous list of wonders. ` ` but even lying on the ground , it is a marvel ` ` , said pliny the elder .
mini zoo fosters rare species of asiatic fauna , which include the endangered sun bear ; it s a home to species of animals and birds found only in the hills of mizoram .
the construction of the colossus took 12 years and was finished in 282 bc. for years , the statue stood at the harbor entrance , until a strong earthquake hit rhodes about 226 bc .
taxis and hired cars with chauffeurs are readily available because the road network is the only effective way of communication between the neighbouring states and mizoram by train mizoram does not have any rail links .
it houses a variety of indian snakes and reptiles which can be viewed from close quarters .
named after a certain monsieur ross who built a house on it in 1864 , it has now been converted into a chapel .
this beach is synonymous for it s slightly more picturesque goa as it is located in the cavity of a rock and that too , in the wooded part of one of the most favored honeymoon destinations in india for honeymooners in india .
there are some wonderful deluxe hotels in agra and a lot of them vie to give you a view of the taj mahal .
daman and diu is well connected by road via una ( 30 km ) , to ahmedabad ( 495 km ) , bhavnagar ( 225 km ) , mumbai ( 930 km ) , daman ( 763 km ) , sasangir ( 128 km ) , rajkot ( 261 km ) , somnath ( 87 km ) , veraval , kodinar and mumbai .
gangadhareswara temple has been designed in such a manner that , on the festival of sankranti , a local festival , the rays of the sun pass between the horns of the nandi placed outside the temple , illuminating the image of lord shiva .
this palace is located next to ` ` karanji kere ` ` lake on the way to lalithamahal palace .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
architects albert mayer and mathew novicki drew the initial plans for chanigarh in new york and when the latter died in an air crash in 1950 , the work was entrusted to le corbusier , a well-known architect and planner .
close to the fort complex , jaswant thada the 19th century cenotaph was built in white marble , in commemoration of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
the poshest area of mumbai , malabar hill has attractive residences , including the chief minister 's house and a palatial state guest house .
chennai presents a culture that is distinctly different from that of northern india .
the palaces which were built for the kings and their families were not only for pleasure but they are glowing with artistic beauty , hence they attract people from all the parts of the world .
the barge also travels as far as regent 's park where you can be dropped in the middle of the famous london zoo .
houseboats and motorboats are available on hire for bird watching cruises on the lake .
an exclusive upgradation of the traditional ' haat ' .
however , agra is best known for the taj mahal , one of the seven wonders of the modern world. emperor shah jahan built this exquisite white marble mausoleum for his favorite queen mumtaz mahal .
religious festivals like makara samkramana , sri ramanavami , janmasthtami , ganesh chaturthi , deepavali , christmas , eid-ul-fitr , eid-ul-adha etc. are celebrated in harmony .
ajmer city was founded by the chauhan ruler , aiaipal , during the 11th century and is dominated by the taragarh fort built by prithiviraj chauhan .
the natural and scenic delights on the platter before the honeymooners in india in this blissful and surreal honeymoon destination in india are there to be cherished for years to come once the sojourn ends like whiff of wind .
built by the east india company in 1639-1640 , the fort marks the beginning of madras as a modern city .
maharashtra 's many inland and coastal forts are a legacy of shivaji and , to a lesser extent , the portuguese .
the two narrative scenes on the left wall show the temptation by mara , the god of passion , and a colossal carved figure of the reclining buddha , depicting his ultimate salvation from the cycle of rebirth the mahaparinirvan .
mandawa town was founded in 1755 by thakur nawal singh and is still the home of his descendants .
on her return , she persuaded lord curzon to do something to save this animal from total annihilation .
home of brunel 's impressive railway terminus which has recently been completely renovated , paddington is an area of large stucco victorian houses , many of which have been converted into budget hotels .
the first lambeth bridge was built in 1862 .
moreover , winter treks are gaining popularity as a means of getting away to relatively lower altitudes .
the eternal jamuna bears witness to the glorious and tumultuous 5 , 000 year old history of delhi .
each local temple is lit up enhancing the beauty of already lovely structure .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
the name kanha itself may be derived from kanhar , the local term for the clayey soil in the valley bottoms , or from kanva , a holy man who once lived there in a forest village .
it specializes in shakespeare s works , although other plays and musicals are also performed during the summer .
sanchen lake positioned in darjeeling , as the ideal honeymoon destination in india is a delight to behold and sense for the honeymooners in india .
hyderabad is now an international airport as well and is currently served by qatar airways , emirates , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
the animal life is thick with ghoral , kakkar , sambhar and cheer pheasants , to name a few animals .
dalhousie is at a distance of 80 km from pathankot .
as soon one enters in the fort from the lahore gate there is a small bazzar , here all kinds of items are available .
on the roundabout at the south end of the bridge is the museum of garden history , situated in the old 14th century church of st mary-at-lambeth. .
manipur state museum is near the polo ground is an interesting museum , which is the best place to get a glimpse of manipur history and culture .
langthabal is the relics of an old historic palace well planned temples and ceremonial houses .
these stupas , temples , monasteries and pillars date back to almost the 3rd century b.c. .
the whole city was painted pink by maharaja man singh ii when prince of wales , later edward vii , visited jaipur in 1876 .
ramanagaram is also an important silk cocoon market .
the area surrounding solan is very rich in peas , tomatoes , ginger and beans .
emperor shah jahan is believed to have used the marble throne for repose , and the slate throne to watch elephant fights in the courtyard .
dimapur is connected by indian airlines flights with guwahati , delhi , calcutta , imphal and jorhat .
the concrete main dam is of the hollow gravity type and is connected to the spillway by a concrete buttress-type wing dam which continues thereon as a small cardhfill dike .
rajput heritage rajasthan has been long regarded as the land of maharaja s , forts and palaces .
the mausoleum is four storied the first three in red sandstone , and the one on the top in white marble .
the capital of rajasthan was given a co lour coat of pink a century ago in honor of a visiting prince and ever since , it has retained this co lour .
the top of the dodabetta peak remains covered by mist most of the time but on a clear day , you can have a look at the landscape as far as the plains of coimbatore and the mysore plateau .
like taimur in the punjab and delhi , dulucha carried sword and fire , destroyed towns and villages and slaughtered thousands .
a unique museum of dolls is located near the ito crossing on the bahadur shah jafar marg .
one of hyderabad 's prime attractions is the salar jung museum , the world 's largest collection by a single individual , sir yusaf ali salar jung iii .
this lead to it being described as an inside out building .
the former british residency , overlooking the artificial lake , ana sagar , has now been converted to the circuit house .
the announcement triggered a swift reaction by great britain , france , and israel , who all invaded egypt less than two months later .
according to popular belief in name kurukshetra comes from the pious king kuru and his tribe .
sir walter lawrence writes ` ` the valley is an emerald set in pearls ; a land of lakes , clear streams , green turf , magnificent trees and mighty mountains where the air is cool , and the water sweet , where men are strong , and women vie with the soil in fruitfulness .
international and domestic airlines connect ahmedabad to bombay , delhi and major cities of india .
the slogan ' dilli chalo ' is still used by leaders and political parties when they organize any rally or demonstration .
till its waters vanished into the ground , the holy river saraswati is regarded to have flowed by kurukshetra - and many vedic hymns were composed along its banks .
eco tourism , chhattisgarh tours with 12 % share of india s forests , chhattisgarh s 3 national parks and 11 wildlife sanctuaries are major attractions .
the khajuraho city traces its origin in the 10th century when it was the bastion of the chandela dynasty .
the mudhumalai sanctuary lies at a distance of 36 km from ooty .
the period between the decline of the mughal dynasty and the insurgence of the british imperial rule , polo almost vanished from the mainland india .
picturesque vintage car rallies are also held in some of the metros like kolkats s annual statesman vintage car rally .
the martand temple has been universally admired by the archeologists and the artists .
the reign of this king would not be complete without the mention of 'suya ' one of the greatest engineers kashmir produced in ancient times .
one of the few modern planned cities in india , chandigarh is divided into 47 self-contained sectors .
spanish rule was administered from a distance , leaving the various regions to develop separately from the capital , caracas , which was founded by diego de losada in 1567 .
the specialty of this palace is that the facing portions of the palace are made of soft iron .
today the fort is used by the state legislative assembly and as the secretarial offices of the tamil nadu government .
beside trading of horse camels , cows and bulls , there are exciting camelcart races and cultural cents , clothes household items and leather goods are for sale during the fair on the full moon of kartik , pilgrims take a holy dip in the lake .
this unique observatory jantar mantar was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
apart from its own considerable scenic attraction , dalhousie is the gateway to chamba , the valley of milk , honey , springs and streams .
government central museum has a rich collection of ivory work , textiles , jewellery , carved wooden objects , miniature paintings , marble statues , arms and weapons .
itanagar is the capital of india s largest north eastern state .
sikandra fort is the last resting place of the mughal emperor akbar .
he built a medieval fort on the same spot where the lighthouse once stood , using the fallen stone and marble .
rao karamsi-the eighth prince of rao jodha , the founding maharaja of jodhpur successfully launched the royal dynasty at khimsar .
travel destinations , the tour guide , provides the outdoor traveler with an opportune moment to have a go at one of the racier and less explored aspects of adventure tourism in india , i.e. jeep safari in india which is definitely tourism with a difference .
the barhut asokan rock edict ( bc 250 ) in pali written in the brahmi script is one of the most important exhibits .
row upon row of glorious period houses and pristine squares make up the majority of the area , but there are also a number of extremely exclusive shops , restaurants and attractive pubs .
along the banks of jamuna are located the places were the leaders and freedom fighters of india were cremated .
all the major indian festivals are celebrated in banagalore with pomp and gaiety .
the late 16th century junagarh fort & museum was constructed by raja rai singh , a general in the army of akbar , the mughal emperor .
it was completed by the sultan 's successor and son-in-law , iltutmish. the tomb of iltutmish , which he himself built in 1235 , is nearby ; its interiors are profusely decorated with calligraphy , though the dome has collapsed .
chaurasi is the site of the shrines dedicated to laxminarayanan , amareshras and barahi .
the challenge of the turbulent rivers is no less than that of the rigged mountains .
6 kms. from imphal iroishemba is a zoological park .
visit sarnath where he gave his first sermon and kushinagar where he attained parinirvana .
the icy heights of the himalayas are the source of some of india s mighty rivers .
travelers anywhere must always carry essential items like a basic first aid kit with medicines like for general ailments like fevers , colds and coughs , cuts and scrapes as well as specific medication for allergies , insect and mosquito repellents etc all these are available in the city , so if you are caught without them don t worry too much , 24 hour chemists will help you out .
gir forest is the only place in the world , outside africa , where the lion can be seen in its natural habitat .
india is endowed with an eclectic deluge of places and sites to choose from when it comes to taking up one 's backpacks and embarking on a breathtaking trek down a frozen lake or launching one self onto a thunderous river rafting expedition in the dangerously curvaceous ganges .
there was even talk of a bridge with a span wide enough to cross the english channel .
the taj mahal is situated more than 900 ft ( 275 m . ) away from the entrance at the opposite end of the garden .
after the 1821 declaration of independence , peru was challenged by the royalists .
the city of london is a strange place .
alibag is like a tropical island , all lush trees and palm fringed beaches .
later , the calculations showed to be wrong , and the final attempt to dig the canal was undertaken by former french consul in cairo and famous canal digger ferdinand de lesseps .
the assembly of the first level was achieved by the use of twelve temporary wooden scaffolds , 30 meters high , and four larger scaffolds of 40 meters each .
moirang is about 45 kms. from imphal and is a very sacred place for the manipuri people .
this rich avian and faunal life combined with its picturesque scenery make a visit to the park a memorable one .
there are a number of small islands around port blair which fall within the marine national park and are uninhabited and covered with virgin forests on them ; daily excursion to various such islands takes one to beautiful secluded beaches .
it was he , who finally broke the power of arabs in sindh .
river sports in the rapids of the toughest and most popular throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping .
only a third of the 2 , 500 , 000 rivets used in the construction of the tower were inserted directly on site .
spend some time feasting your eyes on the shivalik ranges. doon valley , dakpather and asan barrage .
in retirement following the panama scandal , eiffel devoted the final thirty years of his life to a fruitful career as a scientist .
a simple square platform of black marble marks the spot where mahatma gandhi was cremated after his assassination in 1948 .
the first brush with royality could be had on the palace on wheels , the tourist train run by the rajasthan tourism department .
after his death , the great historian informs that the record of 35 kings who ruled the valley could not be traced by him , because of the destruction of the record .
the entire proceedings of the conference were inscribed on copper plates in sanskrit , enclosed in stone boxes , deposited in a vihar .
consisting of the twin cities of hyderabad and secunderabad , hyderabad is also the capital of the state of andhra pradesh .
chennai has a very hot tropical climate ; the temperature variation between winters and summers is minimal .
suya 's memory is still preserved to this day , by the town sayapur ( sopore ) founded by him at the point where river vitasta , since his regulation leaves the basin of mahapadomsar ( wouler lake .
the lohapol or the iron gate at the mehrangarh fort has a special historical significance and attracts tourists even today .
all travelers and tourists are required to make this journey along with an experienced guide .
vasco house sports the typical european glass paned windows and verandahs , characteristic of the times .
they were referred to as ` ` the granaries of joseph ` ` and ` ` the mountains of pharaoh .
mumbai , too , has several opportunities for sailing and other water sports .
dalhousie the pride of himachal pradesh remains a much sought after hill station in india as a honey mooner 's destination .
the mughals in northern india have given to india several fascinating forts and palaces .
the 2 main destinations in india , which have scuba diving activities , as well as courses in the sport are the andamans and lakshadweep .
india has been a bit slow into commercially exploiting its rich natural heights , waterfalls and galactic glaciers and marketing its old world bounties to the new world enthusiasts .
this is broken down into 20 m ( 60 ft ) for the stepped podium , 12 m ( 38 ft ) for the colonnade , 7 m ( 22 ft ) for the pyramid , and 6 m ( 20 ft ) for the chariot statue at the top .
but the important thing for the future of these hills is that we retain the spirit and energy of sullivan .
today nothing remains at the site of the old temple except rocks and debris , the foundation of the buildings , and fallen columns .
this blue-basalt building in early english gothic style was designed by col. j.a. fuller .
flowers are arranged in delightful patterns in everyone 's front yards and there are cultural programmes held all over the place .
the scenery that unfolds as one looks out of the window is breathtaking .
in spite of this entire karkota rule on the whole has been considered as the glorious and remarkable periods of ancient kashmir .
lothal is one of the most important historical sites that that must pay a visit to during your tours to historical monuments in gujarat , india .
tughlaqabad fort was built in the early 14th century ; this stark and powerful fortress palace was built by the first tuglaq king and has 13 gates .
unless you are accustomed to horse riding , a daylong camel ride will be tiring .
the closest operational airport is at varanasi , which is four hours away by road .
it is nestled in the outer inclines of dhaulandhar range .
thank god that mumbai has any number of little beaches that you can escape to when the going gets tough .
in ancient times , a statue of poseidon adorned the summit of the building .
as the winch glides along the slopes , the sight of thick sholas unravels itself .
this planetarium gives a overview of the indian space program .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
further in south you can enjoy water adventures along both the west and the east coasts of india .
the palaces and temples built by bundela rajputs retain much of their pristine perfection .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far-flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
tropical moist deciduous forests grow in the terai and the northern areas .
today , while the surrounding hills , with their waterfalls and bamboo and eucalyptus groves are still extremely charming , mount abu itself has become an overcrowded and gaudy little town .
the magnitude of the project can also be demonstrated by the fact that in 1995 itaip alone responded for 25 % of the energy supply in brazil and 78 % in paraguay .
ooty is one of the most popular tourist resorts in india .
soaring high coniferous forests and flower meadows welcome the trekker .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to this marvelously natural and neanderthal hill station in india .
two years ago , d. venugopal of the save nilgiris campaign , which has been at the forefront of keeping sullivan s memory alive , organized a trek that retraced the route he took up to the hills .
as per its topography , uttar pradesh can be divided into three distinct regions the himalayan mountainous region in the north , the fertile and vast gangetic plains in the centre and the rocky vindhya range and plateau to the south of the state .
general augusto pinochet ugarte was declared supreme chief of state and president , and remained in power despite considerable opposition from many sectors of society .
western toilets , neat rooms , fresh catch cooked to perfection in the local way , a gently nattering boat man this is life ! the summers are muggy till the rains break and bring wet relief in june .
the landscape of kaziranga is of sheer forest , tall elephant grass , rugged reeds , mellow marshes and shallow pools .
before dieing mumtaz extracted a promise from shah jahan that after her death he would build the most beautiful building of the world as a tribute to their love .
holiday packages on the houseboats , traditional kettuvalloms , an out-of-this-world experience at kumarakom .
the ceremonial arch was built in 1927 to commemorate the visit of king .
also has a swimming pool .
they are said to have migrated from thailand and burma long ago and still using ancient scripts derived from their original homeland .
and when alexander the great conquered asia minor , he offered to rebuild the destroyed temple , but the temple was not restored until after his death in 323 bc .
the capital , caracas , boasts fine historical monuments , an excellent collection of museums and art galleries , and contrasting examples of old and new architecture .
maharashtra is proud of its history of having stood up , initially , against the mughal invaders from the north and then later against the british empire .
the baroque style ruled the roost in goa which amounts to an overwhelming stress on intricate glasswork , details and wooden work .
on diwali , the festival of lights , in october / november every year a large fair is held here .
just 21 kms from the city and easily accessible by road is the bannerghatta national park .
this course of rejuvenating treatment , a process which is permanently under way , helps give the tower a very long life expectancy .
visit the mughal gardens , the chashme shahi ( royal spring ) , nishat bagh ( pleasure garden ) and shalimar bagh ( the abode of love .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
phubala is a charming resort on the western fringes of the loktak lake and is 40 kms from imphal , it is joined to the mainland by a low causeway and boating and other water sports are being introduced here .
the south pier was rigged anew in 1983 with a small electrically driven elevator by otis to take customers up to the jules verne restaurant .
the rivers like the sutlej , beas ( in himachal pradesh ) , teetsa ( in sikkim ) , and yamuna also offer sporting challenges .
there is a tourist lodge within the park and early morning boat rides into the marsh are a treat for bird lovers .
the pointillist style of the picture , with colored marks juxtaposed to draw light and movement out of the shapes , is exactly consistent with the tower 's own style of architectural expression .
trivandrum is an important international gateway of south india with few direct flights from west asia , sri lanka and maldives .
indian airlines connect imphal with delhi via guwahati on mondays , wednesdays , fridays and saturdays .
a highly polished small marbles piece is so fitted that it serves as a mirror and one can see the mausoleum reflected in it .
emperor jahanir entitled prince khurram as ` shah jahan ` and when he became emperor he entitled his wife as mumtaz mahal ` the chosen one of the palace .
sandwiched between many of the grand houses you can find charming cobbled mews containing smaller residences .
the kishanpur sanctuary located about 30 km from dudhwa , is the other constituent of the reserve .
shimla at an altitude of 2 , 130 m is an utterly charming resort .
after performing penance for a long time , the saint was blessed , and he was able to cut the mountain near varahmulla , which blocked the water of the lake from flowing into the plains below .
during the 'state of siege ' , political opponents were imprisoned ( and many of them ' disappeared ' ) , censorship was systematic and all non-government political activity banned .
the magh mela in january is an important religious event for hindus .
sikandra fort is the mausolemn of emperor akbar represents his philosophy and secular outlook , combining the best of hindu and muslim architectures in a superlative region .
the place does become a little too crowded on saturdays and sundays , but a walk on the heath should relieve any sense of claustrophobia .
the jagannath temple with its elaborate carvings and moldings are very fine examples of orissa architecture. ( non hindus are not allowed .
built by the portuguese in around the 16th century , this roman catholic church is famous for the beautiful paintings on its ceiling .
white marbled hathee singh s temple is dedicated to the 15th jain apostle-dharamnath and it is built in pure white marble and embellished with intricate carving .
burazahoma is famous as one of the only two megalithic sites in the extreme north-west of indian sub-continent. .
built by maharaja jai singh , the notable astronomer , the jaipur city is 260 years old .
team mrf , team jk , team jct and team paarel are the only four teams india today .
nineteenth-century shipwrecks await exploration , while battlefields in the 1982 conflict such as goose green and pebble island have become tourist attractions.french guiana was discovered by the spanish in 1496 , who established a few settlements in 1503 and 1504 .
during the urs fair , folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices .
the airport is 5 km away from agartala city and taxis and autos transport you to the city .
the lake here attracts migratory birds and the enclosures have animals like tigers , cheetahs , lions , bears and a rhino elephant rides and boating in the lake are added attractions .
india travel destinations , the tour guide arranges for these tours to these much-coveted honeymoon hotels in chennai .
bhuj has several brilliant facets that surprise the traveler who expects an arid , run-down scenario exuding apathy and fatalism in equal parts .
the building made during mid 16th and earlier 17th centuries were purely in the contemporary mughal style and of very high quality .
this historical monument is a multi-layered palace that has a beehive structure and is an architectural wonder .
bikaner is also one major hub for the tourists looking for an adventurous camel ride , which gives an insight into the exquisite lifestyle of remote rajasthan .
the natural heritage of india is as rich and diverse as the cultural heritage .
horse guards barracks and the parade ground behind them were built in the 1750 's .
it featured in the film four weddings and a funeral as the spot of hugh grant 's ill-fated marriage ceremony .
over the centuries , it has become the symbol of undying love and flawless beauty .
the roof of mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes .
it is open on all days except fridays from 8 am to 5 pm .
then we have the beautiful saheliyon ki baadi which is another royal fountain dedicated to the reigning dynasty and its entourage of family members .
kuruma is a small village , about 8 kms from konark and a site of buddhist archaeological discoveries .
economically speaking , ooty can sustain itself with income from potato and other hilly vegetables and tea .
a mere 30-minute drive away from khajuraho and extending over 543 km , spread along the banks of the river ken , the park 's topography is a magnificent one of deep gorges , tranquil valley and dense teak forests .
at the sangam , the waters of the ganges and the yamuna can be distinctly seen to merge into one .
the marwari has a beautiful head crowned by perky lure shaped ears meeting at the tips .
lincoln 's inn is one of london 's four inns of court .
tripura bhavan , kautilya marg , chanakyapuri , new delhi110011 ( ph 91011301 5157 ) tripura bhavan , 1 pretoria street , calcutta ( ph 91033242 5703 ) tripura tourism , palace compound agartala ( ph 910381225 930 / 223 893 ) agartala is best visited from october to may .
for the foreign visitors permits are given only after they obtain an introductory letter from the respective embassy .
there is so much to see in this incredible city .
other european had been up before. an enigmatic jesuit priest , father fininicio , made the first expedition in 1603 .
also , in the early part of 1996 , the building caught fire and almost became a towering inferno .
even bill clinton testified to as much when he declared the world was divided into two : those who have seen the taj and those who have not ! besides the taj mahal though , there are a lot of other important sights in and around agra .
the queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue .
sikkim presents a leisure trip - a cruise of adventure and exploring .
chattrapati shivaji terminus , formerly known as victoria terminus ( vt ) , this is one of the most imposing buildings in mumbai .
visitors can also go to hirakud dam near sambalpur and puri ( orissa ) by road for which bus service is available .
other findings include the vaulted building with thick walls and irrigation well near the southern palace .
the red government buildings are a study in contrast against the remarkably white old british buildings still in existence , notably the maharajas palace .
wenlock downs is a region of extensive grasslands with shoals or gallery forests of eucalyptus .
most of the population of haryana is engaged in agriculture yielding grain , sugar , oilseeds , and cotton .
the immortal akshaya vat tree within the patalauri temple , has found mention in the description of several ancient scriptures , writers and historians .
the bush administration inherited ' plan colombia ' after victory at the us november 2000 poll and endorsed the plan with some modifications .
the 10 day dussehra festival is one of the major attractions , culminating in the long procession of caparisoned elephants , liveried retainers , and cavalry .
the final chapter in the history of the lighthouse came in ad 1480 when the egyptian mamelouk sultan , qaitbay , decided to fortify alexandria 's defense .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
the temple is about a thousand years old and dominates the skyline of bhubaneshwar from as far as 15 kms. away and exhibits the skill of the orissan temple architects .
some of the greatest sanskrit scholars and poets were born , and wrote in the valley and from it has issued in sanskrit language a world famous collection of folk-lore. ' ' ( panchtantra . ) .
arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the palace .
government central museum was constructed in 1876 when prince of wales has visited india and opened to public in 1886 .
fountains , terraces , lotus pools , rose gardens and a deer park surround the magnificent glass house built in 1840 , on the lines of london 's crystal palace .
the flora and fauna of these islands , however , indicate that this land connection if it existed should have been to the development of their present life from anthropological museum .
agriculture is the main occupation of meghalaya , with eighty three percent of the total population , dependent on it for their livelihood .
argentina formally surrendered on 14 june , 10 weeks after the invasion .
hawa mahal is the most recognizable monument of jaipur .
even in summer , the evenings tend to be cool so do carry a light wrap with you .
unlike other sanctuaries , however , the building was made of marble , with a decorated fa ade overlooking a spacious courtyard .
himachal pradesh is a delightful state for visitors , particularly during the hot season .
khuldabad is a walled city also known as rauza and famed as the ' heavenly abode .
safety standards were redefined and adapted to modern requirements , particularly where they concerned fire safety .
indian tourists intending to visit nagaland are required to obtain inner line permit issued by the additional deputy commissioner , dimapur , deputy commissioner kohima or deputy commissioner , mokokchung. d.r.c. at nagaland house , delhi and calcutta , asst. resident commissioner of shillong .
the west side is being left to age gracefully and contains an enormous amount of plant life and animals , including foxes .
culturally similar to them are membas and khembas who lives in the high mountains along the northern borders , khamptis and singphos inhabiting the eastern part of the state are buddhists of hinayana sect .
an entire kerala village is recreated on the beach during this exotic 10-days long festival held at kovalam .
the route is raipur-kawardha- bhoramdeo-bodla- chilpi - supkhar-muddi ( 178km ) .
currently the main attractions of the temple are the robort who enact and preach the gita .
today , mumbai is the country 's financial and cultural centre , it is also home to a thriving film industry .
the moti bagh palace , built in 19th century , is patterned after the famous shalipaar gardens of lahore .
like other beaches on the konkan coast , alibag too has a historic fort , the , which is just off the main sea shore .
this 42 meter high structure is a war memorial in honour of soldiers who died during the second world war. the structure has an eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) to honour the memory of the unknown soldiers .
the minarets have a slightly outward incline , to prevent them from falling on the monument during an earthquake .
what a splendid interaction between climate and vegetation ! it is therefore very appropriate that mount stuart called the whole road leading to ooty from mettupalayam , ` ` one long botanical debauch .
this is the place to buy all sorts of woven material with colorful and unusual tribal motifs .
april fools ' day is a unique gathering of various poets from all over the country at chandigarh .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
the islands are now fast becoming an attractive holiday destination for the anthropologist and the beach lover .
the legendary prithviraj chauhan ruled from here till he was defeated by abdali in the battle of panipat .
shiva is another name for independence , and the only reality of the universe is shiva who is infinite consciousness , and unrestricted independence .
for those fascinated by the unexplored , the mountain ranges of india offer breathtaking , enthralling trekking routes .
the architectural complex is comprised of five main elements : the darwaza or main gateway , the bageecha or garden , the masjid or mosque , the naqqar khana or rest house , and the rauza or the taj mahal mausoleum .
bandipur tiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
a statue of a chariot pulled by four horses adorned the top of the tomb .
mount abu is placed on the boundary between rajasthan and gujarat with a natural mandate to serve as a hill station for the relatively dry and arid western part of the country .
they traditionally practice jhuming or shifting cultivation , the third group comprises noctes and wanchos in the tirap district .
adding to the charms of khajjiar , which also hugs a golden-domed devi temple , is a golf course set in idyllic surroundings .
its colonial ambience is reinforced by cobbled paths , tiny shops , gabled houses with magnificent facades and scores of neat little gardens and orchards .
over the past few centuries , the great wall has served as a source of building materials for local farms and villages .
see the palaces , baths , pavilions , each an architectural gem in the afghan style , mosques and tombs of great beauty .
dara shikoh library is an archaeological museum in civil lines and is open from 10am - 5pm , monday to friday .
a land of lush paddy fields , kuttanad is called the rice bowl of kerala and is one of the few places in the world where farming is done below sea level .
a minicoal mine is the main attraction .
9 kms from allahabad is the ancient site of pratisthanpuri .
though small , the temple has an air of distinct elegance and its lofty white tower is a landmark of the coutryside .
all major forms of indian classical dance converge on one stage at ananya , a festival of dance held against the charming backdrop of the purana qila every year .
western ghats of the country too boast of very many hill stations in india with nilgiris as the pedestal , which these hill stations of india seem to be perched upon .
nagaur is 43 km from khimsar , it is famous for the cattle fair that is held every year in the month of january .
fumaca waterfall , at 1 , 020 feet , is one of the highest in brazil - however , the volume of water is not sufficient to maintain its liquid state throughout the long drop to the bottom .
the golden temple stands in the centre of the city and the jallianwala bagh is right next to it .
amritsar is best known for its woolen blankets and sweaters .
hindus traditionally regard river confluences as auspicious places , more so the the sangam at allahabad , where the yamuna and the ganges meet the river of enlightenment , the mythical saraswati .
kangra is a small town and was the capital of the erstwhile rulers of the chand dynasty .
a slightly scruffy area suffering from an unsightly flyover cutting right through its centre , hammersmith is home to the apollo which hosts many top class acts and popular shows .
varaha temple was constructed by the chouhan king anaji ( 1123-1150 ) .
the next great king was praversein ii in whose time people enjoyed perfect peace and prosperity .
the old northwest ( which included wisconsin ) formally passed to the united states in 1783 and was made a part of the northwest territory in 1787 .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
the light-colored ones are the ones from jaisalmer , and are prized for their speed .
it is not open to the public and so is of little interest apart from dominating the city 's skyline .
the 2 main destinations in india , which have scuba diving activities , as well as courses in the sport are the andamans and lakshadweep .
the andaman water sports complex at port blair is a unique water ports centre run by the directorate of tourism , it offers adventure water sports like sailing , skiing , parasailing ( subject to wind / weather conditions ) , water scooters and speedboats .
brahmavart ghat is considered the holiest ghat of bithoor .
a good network of roads joins jaisalmer with jodhpur and many other destinations in and around rajasthan .
the most important natural resource in ubon ratchathani is its forests , such as teng-rung forests , red forests and mixed forests .
for khaman and other gujarati style delicacies , visit sai bhojanalaya , a favourite restaurant with locals in panchayat market .
itanagar is connected by road to the other state capitals in the north-east. .
go for old favourites like cr me de menthe , or try spicy innovations like ginger and cardamom ( sikkim produces a large quantity of both .
the literary tradition is kept up : the current owner is playwright christopher hampton , best known for his screen adaptation of dangerous liaisons .
the painting of twin brigdge was chosen to be the first-day cover of the united nations ' postage stamp in 1985 .
incredibly beautiful , these artifacts make for memorable gifts .
andretta pottery is usually light , colourful and highly aesthetic .
this can be obtained from indian missions abroad or the immigration authorities in mumbai , calcutta , delhi , and chennai or on arrival at port blair .
the summer temperatures of 10oc to 25oc give way to lush green meadows and thick green forests of pine & deodar trees while in the winter when the temperature falls to 5oc to - 10oc , the angel white snow make it the ideal place for skiing .
mirmar hotel also has an entertainment centre called the mirasol lake resort and parkin kadaiya village , nani daman .
the place is untouched by the outside world of modernity .
the cape was locally referred to as jung ceylon , which was located between latitudes 6 n and 8 n ( the present site of phuket island .
assam was dominated by ahom rulers for more than 600 years , they ruled assam virtually uninterrupted for 6 centuries until their kingdom fell to the british , in 1826 .
north carolina had about 100 , 000 black inhabitants in 1790 , and by the time of the american civil war ( 1861-1865 ) blacks accounted for one-third of the population .
at present , the number of real eco-tourism visitors is still minimal. mostly , those tourists are included in other types of tourism such as nature-based tourism , agro-tourism , cultural and historical tourism and health tourism .
barely a few minutes away from the river , hotel kanha shyam has a 24 hour coffee shop , a well stocked bar called court view and a great indian restaurant called baradari , it is best choice in allahabad .
zhouzhuang , one of the most famous water townships in china , situated in kunshan city which is only 30 kilometers ( 18 miles ) southeast of suzhou .
the royal lake was built in 1660 ad by rana raj singh , from here ; one can have a spectacular view of the sunset with beautiful ' torans ' or arches and ' chhatris ' adorning the embankment .
the exploration and conquest of present-day new mexico by the spanish and , later , the mexicans , introduced a culture that continues to influence the character of new mexico .
dudhwa tiger reserve is one of the finest , of the few remaining examples of the exceedingly diverse and productive tarai eco-systems. .
based on questionable evidence , the convictions by an all-white jury generated international outrage .
the most especial experience in orissa is found at the beautiful chilka lake .
the saints marble domed mausoleum is india s most important shrine for muslims and receives an endless flow of visitors of all religions as the sick , the troubled and the childless come here seeking a boon , a blessing or just peace of mind .
vaishali has a past that pre-dates recorded history , it is held that town derives its name from king vishal , whose heroic deeds are narrated in the hindu epic ramayana .
in 1805 , york , an african-american servant for the the lewis and clark expedition traveled though what is now idaho .
the state of tripura is supposed to have been named after this temple .
there is always a cool , fresh breeze that makes even the warmest months bearable .
the palace regales the historically inclined tourist to its royal rooms and suits , its log huts and bamboo cottages .
the mirror which reflection could be seen more than 50 km ( 35 miles ) off-shore .
delhi is a bustling capital city and a business centre with all the trapping of modern metropolis but yet flavored strongly with an age old charm that never fails to surprise a traveler .
this is a highly secluded picture perfect beach of hat tham phra nang that attracts thousands of visitors year round but is able to maintain its flawless appearance and relaxing ambience .
after passing a mangrove swamp , you will see tham lot tai a cave beneath a limestone hill with a stream flowing through narrow passages .
the empires grandeur can still be admired in many areas of chaiya district .
take the grand red city wall for example and it has an 8.6 meters wide base reducing to 6.66 meters wide at the top .
as the united states expanded to the west , the platte valley trails of nebraska became the major highways .
the rooms are named and themes to match - the rose has sheets and pillowcases embroidered with roses , for example-and have splendid mountain views and cane furniture .
the futuristic park is built to exacting international standards , supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure .
the paragliing ashram is a quiet place to relax and take endless walks around the lake , or better yet , plunge right into adventure country .
although the royal family still live on the top floor , you can stay in on of six rather ornately decorated rooms .
a large bay with scenic beaches and 83 small islands , ao nang has several famous beaches which include east rai le , west rai le and tham phra nang ( cave ) which stretches to the foot of a prominent limestone range .
singapore won several awards in the quorum awards 2004 announced in april 2005 by the quorum magazine , a bi-monthly magazine showcasing the best of conference , meeting , exhibitions and incentive opportunities for the mice industry .
from grandparents to toddlers , the big chill informal italian bistro attracts food buffs from all over the city .
nagarjuna , in the words of havell , was the luther of buddhism , the apostle of bhaktimarga , who would find means of expression for the deep seated religious instinct of the masses , through the way of devotion to the divine teacher , rather than through the dry agnostic philosophy of hinayana school .
andaman islands played an important role in india 's freedom movement with many a freedom fighter sentenced to prison terms at the cellular jail .
true to its name , there is a giant verandah , made of its beautifully carved white wooden balustrades , which runs all around the house .
dam s reservoir is 97 km long with a depth of 137 meters while total area of the lake is 260 sq.km. with a reservoir capacity of 13 , 690 , 000 , 000 cubic m , the dam is 143 m high and 2 , 743 m wide at its crest .
the u .s . acquired the utah region in the treaty ending the mexican war in 1848 and the first transcontinental railroad was completed with the driving of a golden spike at promontory summit in 1869 .
bekal fort beaches is a spectacular location made immensely atmospheric , thanks to the brooding presence of the bekal fort right on the sea .
`` the scenic beauty of andaman & nicobar islands would create a sense of dissatisfaction and the human mind would rebel against `` the whole mass of the motley facts of life .
museum is proof of the country 's motto of unity in diversity as well as freedom of religion depicted in the houses of worship built on the grounds .
the government museum displays a collection of archaeological artifacts and the art gallery has a collection of the works of the noted artist of the court of mysore k . venkatappa .
the islamic style of architecture is also referred to as the indoislamic style of architecture .
the arid landscape of eastern and southeastern nusa tenggara is the result of hot , dry winds blasting in from the australian continent .
this showcases a minute section of the multifarious stocks of people and is only a minor glimpse of the great variety that lies in store for tourists in this unique hill station in india .
a major achievement of king ramkhamhaeng was the revision of various forms of khmer alphabets into a system suitable for the writing of thai words .
wildflower hall is a fairytale luxury resort set in 23 acres of virgin woods of pine and cedar at a height of 8 , 350ft. .
delwara is a key indian archeological site , nestled in the rocky and sylvan surroundings of mount abu .
wild flowers such as the wild poppies are the ones , which are commonly grown in sikkim as a prominent hill station in india .
although never formally designated as such by the british , savannah was the center of colonial government in georgia for half a century .
the famous bikaneri bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in bikaner .
when mexico fought and obtained independence , california lost virtually all its centralized support .
balochistan is the largest province of pakistan , which makes 44 % of the country 's land mass and it traces its history from times immemorial when it was inhabited by stone age hunters .
the stone amalaka or crown is encircled by a wooden roof , and the stone walls have intricately carved images .
originally built to houses the guests of the chogyal royal family , the nor-khill ( the name means above of jewels ) boasts a fusion of traditional sikkimese architecture and modern comfort .
a cluster of royal and high-society residences gradually became more visible resulting in the transformation of the whole village into the first seaside resort of the country , where visitors could enjoy swimming , fishing , and golfing in the country 's first standard golf course .
after being donated to full fortune ( quanfu ) temple by zhou digong , a very devout buddhist , in 1086 during the northern song dynasty ( 960 - 1127 ) , zhouzhuang got its present name as a memorial of the donor .
the guru is said to have accepted only offerings of weapons from his disciples , which were used for defense of the temple town .
caves 2 and 3 are dedicated entirely to vishnu , whereas cave 4 is has an image of the jain tirthankara , adinath .
villa pottipati , a 133 year - old bungalow surrounded by frui , jacaranda and gulmohar , trees in old bangalore s brahmin stronghold of malleswaram , has watched the decades go by almost unmoved .
the hesaraghatta lake , a man-made lake , near the village is also a popular tourist spot .
tabah penanjung , an hour drive into the hills above bengkulu is a nature reserve where rafflesias are often found. mt bukit kaba , near the hill town of curup can be climbed in a day from bengkulu .
national parks & monuments include badlands , wind cave , jewel cave , mount rushmore .
please keep your camera ready in barren island because this comes to life without warning and when it does , it makes headlines .
the steady stream of hopeful prospectors from the east and midwest increased the number to 20 , 595 in 1870 , the year of the first census .
milder but with a tart flovour is lap se chutney , made of sour wild berries , while for a tangy touch ; there is dho - tender bamboo shoots in mustard oil .
queen victoria opened blackfriars bridge in november 1869 .
the most meager that your budget should get is us $ 20 per day of your stay on this amount , you ll struggle with dormitory accommodation , look for cheap grub , and constantly try to figure out bus routes and timings but you ll just about survive .
electronics city is an industrial park spread over 330 acres exclusively meant for electronics industries .
pilgrims also come to these shores to perform the last rites of their relatives .
akbar , king at 14 , began consolidating his empire and , as an assertion of his power built the fort in agra between 1565 and 1571 , coeval with the construction of humayun 's tomb in delhi .
you won t feel like an outsider in tribal country for long the untouched beauty and simplicity of dadra & nagar haveli will draw you right in .
religious festivals like makara samkramana , sri ramanavami , janmasthtami , ganesh chaturthi , deepavali , christmas , eid-ul-fitr , eid-ul-adha etc. are celebrated in harmony .
dharamshala is the headquarters of the tibetan government in exile and a treasurehouse of all things tibetan .
about one percent of the population of kerala and tamilnadu are tribal , where as about six percent in andhra pradesh and karnataka are members of tribes .
after they were forced to cede their lands to the united states in 1825 , the osage moved to kansas territory .
abot 35 kms from tirtupati the temple town pf klalhasti is the best place to buy kalamkari fabric .
the 572 islands of andaman and nicobar archipelago in the bay of bengal is a fantasy world of silver sands , a diverse and un exploited eco-system , coral reefs , evergreen forests and exotic flora and fauna .
the v-shaped building , which stands opposite victoria terminus ( chhatrapati shivaji terminus ) is designed in early gothic style blended with indian motifs .
take a spice tour to learn how coffee and spices are cultivated , go boating or fishing , or to be infused with new life , step into vaidyasala in the ayurveda village , and let the 5 , 000 year - old secrets if india s holistic medical system rejuvenates you .
native americans , most of whom are of the dakota ( sioux ) people , were 8.3 percent of the population , blacks 0.6 percent , asians 0.6 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 1.8 percent .
try the fish fillet stuffed with prawns or the steamed rice with fish in green gravy .
a festival of sufi music dedicated to hazrat amir khusrau , famed poet laureate and an icon fo love and integration , the jahan-e-khusarau is held in spring every year in delhi .
for trekking in restricted zone , foreigners must pay a fee of us $ 20 per person per trek to obtain a trekking permit from the ministry of tourism , govt. of pakistan islamabad .
later in 1899 , the area was under the supervision of northeastern monthon , with ubon ratchathani serving as an administrative hub .
over a period of time ahmedabad has consolidated its position as a vibrant business and commercial city but is also famed as an academic centre with a number of premier institutions of higher studies located here .
harsha along with his son bhoja were murdered , and the kashmir throne passed into the hands of two princes respectively .
the library has a collection of some 75 , 000 books besides historical manuscripts and journals .
it is best to go to a local restaurant for a handful of utti .
treks up to 4900 mts need no permission , and can be undertaken on tourist visas .
climb upon the parapet , whose different levels are connected by winding staircase , ascending right to the top for a superb panoramic view of the river .
sightseeing emperor shah jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen arjumand bano begum or mumtaz mahal .
next to the bridge you can still see the pillars , which supported the old 1860 's london , chatham and dover railway bridge .
area 316 , 421sq km population 592 , 000 ( approx. ) language marathi , urdu , hindi , and english religion hindu , muslim state maharashtra for more tourist information on aurangabad , click into the links below or on the .
thus lalitaditya must be regarded as the founder not only of shortlived empire , but also of six centuries of kashmir hindu art .
kotagiri is shielded by the doddabetta ranges which receive much of its rain from north west monsoon .
blacks , most of whom live in the omaha metropolitan area , constitute 4 percent of the population , asians 1.3 percent , native americans 0.9 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 4.2 percent .
royal and army insignias abound in these long lonesome stretches which have a beauty and charm of their own , which impart a special ethereal quality to this honeymoon destination in india for the utility of honeymooners in india and abroad .
there are four morning buses to ajanta ( 3 hours ) and an hourly bus service to the town of jalgaon via ajanta .
add to it fact that this food is cooked for none other than lord jagannath and you don t need any more reasons to try the much blessed mahaprasad-rice , dal , vegetables , sweet-that is cooked in the temple kitchen over wood fire in earthen pots , and has a special flavour .
anglo-americans are the third component of the tri-cultural character of the state. whites comprised 66.8 percent of the state 's population in 2000 .
built of white marble this takth harmandir is actually a sikh shrine , commissioned by maharaja ranjit singh to commemorate the birth of the last sikh guru , guru gobind .
one can also be awed by the ibrahim roza , a moque and tomb said to have inspired the making of the tal mahal .
one of chiang mai 's distinctive features is doi inthanon , thailand s highest peak , which is 2 , 575 meters above sea level .
the ayodhya is closely associated with lord rama , the seventh incarnation of lord vishnu .
ko rok nai is composed mainly of steep cliffs with superb beachs and unspoiled coral reefs among rocks .
kadaknath chicken is found only in district of jhabua , which has a large tribal population of bhils , and is often served on festive occasions .
ajaipal chauhan founded ajmer in the seventh century .
it was announced in aug 2005 that singapore was ranked 5th in the top ten international meeting city in 2004 by the union of international associations .
pilgrims can try the pilgrim lodgings in pushkar called dharamshalas or settle for a tent at the tourist village during the pushkar fair in november .
munnnar as a lesser-known hill station in india was the summer capital of british raj in south india with numerous proud precedents attached to its history and origin .
it is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material .
it was even shown on roman coins , just as famous monuments are depicted on currency today .
for a pure adrenaline rush ( and incredible view ) of lying over lakes and hill , be brave and give it a shot .
the main shopping centers in kanpur for leather are the mall , birhana road , gumti no. 5 , parade , naveen market , meston road and ppn market .
shillong is not known for its nightlife , but things do get rocking at cloud 9 , a rooftop discotheque , and the platinun , polo towers , which comes alive on saturday nights .
some of the largest glaciers outside sub-polar regions flow in the karakorams .
there are still old buildings left which are worth a visit for someone who is interested in the history of indonesia before and during the colonial times .
it has beaches , dense , beautiful forests and ancient temples .
the spacious rooms have verandahs that overlook all the greenery that you can get used to , and the staff will make you feel royalty .
over the next 100 years , colombian politics were dominated by the conservative-liberal feud , which often broke out into warfare .
one of the most luxurious heritage hotels in shimla , the oberoi cecil was restored to its original grandeur a few years ago .
through much of its early history louisiana was a trading and financial center , and the fertility of its land made it one of the richest regions in america as first indigo then sugar and cotton rose to prominence in world markets .
during the civil war ( 1861-1865 ) , georgia lost nearly 120 , 000 men and boys in battle as well as much of the state s material wealth .
maharashtra s konkan coastline , meanwhile , boasts sweeping beaches and quiet spots to grant relief from city stress .
the list is never ending the world heritage site at hampi , the magnificent st. aloysius church in coastal mangalore , the beautiful flora and fauna at bandipur national park , the br hills sanctuary enchanting coorg , or the imposing fortress at srirangapatna .
for those who do not wish to rent or install an iu , the option of paying a fixed erp fee is available whereby , regardless of the number of times one passes an erp gantry , sgd 5 will be deducted per day .
it is india where polo the game of kings was rediscovered and nurtured since the medieval times .
king sahktan thampuran also introduced the famous festival , thrissur pooram .
the orchis has the honour of being asia s first certified eco friendly five star hotel .
large casinos have been built on these lands and are becoming a significant contributor to the native american economy .
assam is also known for its scenic beauty , one can view gushing rivers on one side , snow caped mountains on the other and lush forests in between .
set like a jewel in a courtyard of pink sandstone is the finest building here , the marble tomb of salim chisti enclosed by finely carved , lacy marble screens .
there were 127 columns in total , aligned orthogonally over the whole platform area , except for the central cella or house of the goddess .
jodhpur , the second largest city of rajasthan , at the edge of the thar desert was once the capital of the marwar state .
shimla , as a honeymoon destination in india is generously provided with honeymoon hotels serving the purposes of honeymooners in india , himachal pradesh .
mu ko hong consists of a group of limestone islands including ko lao or ko sa ka , ko lao riam , ko pakka , ko lao la ding and ko hong or ko lao li pe which is the biggest island to the south .
other attractions in the park include several limestone mountain caves , verdant mangrove forests and beautiful islands which can be reached only by boat admission fee is 200 baht per person .
thailand is fortunate in its prime location for tourism in terms of such natural attractions as beaches and mountains , cultural and historical sites which reflect the glories of thai civilization , and a sophisticated infrastructure , allowing visitors easy access to all these treasures .
the composition of the forms and lines of the taj mahal is perfectly symmetrical .
bharatpur bird sanctuary , magnificent bird haven is actual came into being paradoxically as a duck shooting preserve for maharaja suraj mull of bharatpur .
hundreds of ways of making vegetables , each different from the other ( ghanta , badi chura ) , mouth-watering fish preparations ( macha patua ) and meat ( kasa mangsa ) , pancakes , both sweet and salty ( manda pitha ) and a variety of desserts with just the right amount of sweet ( chhenna podo ) would put any cuisine to shame .
around & about by air agra is well connected by air , rail and roads .
the primary basis for this new growth and economic expansion was the production of cotton thorough a slave labor system .
tourists from all over the world come to see backwater .
at ayodhya several religions have grown and prospered simultaneously and also at different periods of time in the past .
there are some things that are really hard to find in lakshadweep .
jaghurajjpur is close to puri , otherwise buy from utkalka , the government-run emporium found in almost all major towns and cities .
built a hundred years ago by the son of the beghum of bhopal , general obaidullah khan , and once the commender in chief of the bhopal state army , this dazzling white jehan numa palace is now a grand heritage hotel .
the fort itself has a impressive bastions and a light house .
phang-nga bay plays host to some of the rarest species of aquatic life in the world , including the rare swimming iguana .
like the rest of rajasthan , kumbhalgarh experiences really hot summers while winters are a bit colder with temperatures hovering between 11 - 25 degrees celsius .
in spite of being seedy , grubby and altogether unattractive , camden town still manages to draw heaps of visitors keen to sample its vibrant market and underground music scene .
to many the annual surajkund mela ( in february ) is the place to stock up on arts , crafts and all things indigenous , bought straight from artisans .
kerala has always been regarded as an ideal setting as a honeymoon destination in india for the honeymooners in india to undertake a honeymoon in kerala .
it culminated in 1889 with the eiffel tower .
music accompanied the sacramental ceremonies which were performed in village and church plazas .
the half-day culinary courses in a studio setting highlight the best in south asian , south-east asian , middle eastern and fusion cooking .
the builders of the taj mahal knew that the reality and its perception and interpretation there of differed .
ubadya is a local version of the undhiyu of gujarat , ubadya is a mix of vegetables abd beans roasted in an earthen pot .
bandipur tiger reserve , thistiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
sukhothai was the first kingdom of the thais in this peninsula .
the hill stations sprawl over an approximate area of 38sq km and are a popular get away .
eateries along the highway are a good bet to sample traditional mizo food .
named for aurangzeb , the last of the great mughal emperors , aurangabad acquired plenty of monuments and a rich culture as its heritage from the middle ages .
most business travelers find doing business in uttar pradesh an exercise in frustration as the bureaucratic red tape slows things down as far as possible , the labor base is sluggish and unprofessional and prone to a lot of union activities .
sea are rough only during the monsoon which strikes between june and september - depending on the kind of holiday you plan you can be positive that is no ordinary holiday .
the natural state , bowie state or toothpick state ( refer to bowie knives and their handles ) , arkansas takes its name from a variation of `` kansas , `` from the kansas river and kansas indians .
the metro cities mumbai ( 545 km ) , delhi ( 915 km ) , calcutta , chennai and other major cities are linked by a number of super fast , express and mail trains .
people of ubon ratchathani are engaged in activities related to agriculture and livestock raising .
the hotel is situated over 9 acres of sprawling forests , and each room has wood interiors. a brass fireplace and art deco furniture .
pilgrims leave offerings at the steps , and can also get the holy book recited in their names for a donation .
bangkok offers visitors the opportunity to experience fascinating glimpse of thailand 's gentle culture amidst the bustle of a great and dynamic metropolis .
a memorial in the park commemorates the proclamation of the assumption of rule by the british crown , announced by lord canning in 1858 .
in the lesser karakorams there are equally great peaks such as rakaposhi ( 7 , 788 metres ) , the dominant giant in hunza valley .
it was vasumitra and nagarjuna who gave shape and form to this new school of thought .
tuophema village resort , home to the angami tribes , the village community has itself developed and run this resort .
power is forever in short supply and on the whole , a healthy business environment is sadly lacking .
other shrines include the 16th century shrine dedicated to the divine couple lakshmi and narayan .
as indonesia 's main gateway , soekarno-hatta international airport serves a growing number of international airlines and domestic flights .
the new docklands is a fine example of this ability .
surat bhawan palace , lakhimpur khiri , not too far from the dudhwa national park is this heritage property , which was built in 1894 in the typical indo-saracenic style .
dashavatar temple dedicated to lord vishnu is the earliest known panchyatan temple in north india .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
local musicians also attracted the king 's attention , such as jose nunes garcia ( 1767-1830 ) who was a notable improviser on the organ and clavichord .
delhi , where broad tree-lined avenues and gracious bungalows compartment blocks where the hand pulled friendly neighbors .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol adheres to western standards , although in smaller places there s still a lot of ` indian ness about the whole thing .
a vast stretch of land on the banks of river cauvery on the bangalore / mysore highway , it consists of islets in the cauvery river which are full of thousands of species of birds including herons , open-billed stork , white ibis , little egret , cattle egret , darter , spoonbill cormorant , pond heron , river tern and many more and also crocodiles .
no visit to sikkim is complete without a tumbler of chhang , the popular local beer made from fermented millet ( the word actually means home-brewed so there are variants made from rice , maize , wheat and cassava ; some taste a bit like sake .
the place is ideal for adventure sports like trekking ; mountain climbing etc. the place attracts both young and old equally .
there are also the lalbhai dalpatbhai institute of indology , museum of miniatures , shreyas folk museum , utensils museum and even a kite museum ! the last one reflects the city s fascination with kites .
the cheyenne , arapaho , comanche , and kiowa were the most important plains tribes .
there are various techniques of embroidery that exists in the district , including those of hindu groups like the rabaris and the ahirs , islamic pastoral groups like the jaths , halepotras and muthwas , thesodha rajputs who migrated from the thar parkar region of sindh , and the meghwal harijans .
at one time , there were almost 360 forts out of which only 10 are left .
by the fourth century ad , most ephesians had converted to christianity and the temple lost its religious glamour .
habitat the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
other offshore isles such as ko poda , ko kai , ko mo and ko thap , are popular destinations that can be reached by a rented boat from ao nang .
this ancient temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord shiva .
leave behind the frenetic cigarettes and coffee pace of the city , and head to the purple valley yoga centre to soothe your body and soul .
whether it s a figurine of a hunter in frozen motion or something as mundane a garden chair .
spanish explorer francisco vasquez de coronado traveled through the region while searching for gold in 1540-42. .
a bridge connects both these ends , which also house thriving shopping malls with bargain price shops .
for those fascinated by the unexplored , the mountain ranges of india offer breathtaking , enthralling trekking routes .
pick up both maheshwari and chanderi saris from the government run mrignayani showroom , new market , bhopal ; it also has outlets in jabalpur and indore .
at the sephijala wildlife sanctuary , humble abodes at laughable low prices offer you a window to daily life , a world of scenic vistas and exciting adventure .
honeymoon in kolkata would include places of notice of the order of the central business district ( cbd ) which is a big relief and architectural revelation of sorts , far from the traffic snarl ups , patches of squalor and poverty which are the only sore points in an otherwise historic city laden with spell bounding monuments and cultural landmarks .
the hill as a delight for the honeymooners in india , is dedicated to the monkey god , lord hanuman which can be a kind of contradiction as hanuman stands for celibacy but the long , meandering pathways of jakhoo hill are utilized by the beginners in the art conjugality .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
chegancas ( arrival ) is a folk play performed during the christmas season ; it tells of the arrival by sea of the moors , their defeat , and their eventual baptism by the christians .
set in the heart of the barbican is the barbican arts centre , which boasts an art gallery , concert hall , cinema and two theatres .
this temple was constructed by maharaja gulab singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son maharaja ranbir singh in the year 1860 a.d. .
the limestone cliffs on the huge headland between hat rai la east and tham phra nang , as well as other nearby islands provide world-class rock climbing facilities against a stunning backdrop of the sea with approximately 700 sport routes of mid to high difficulty ratings .
it was the most beautiful structure on earth .
snuggle up under a hand stitched quilt with a book or just sit under the large mango tree , and get away from it all .
a night market comes up every evening at ahmedabad when colorfully dressed artisans put up their stalls on the streets outside the law garden .
it is located on a 17km stretch of the coramandel coast .
it may be becoming increasingly popular as a holiday resort , but the real treasures of dadra & nagar haveli lie on tranquil trails off its main roads , where you will feel as if the stretches of road have been laid out especially in your honour .
the original temple is said to have been destroyed by the mughal ruler aurangzeb who constructed a mosque on this site .
image thus , the unwary visitor will find chennai more than just a gateway of south india .
a pretty hill town , coonoor is located amidst tea gardens .
a huge fair is held here every year on the occasion of vijaya dashmi .
special times need a special place and shimla qualifies as that ideal honeymoon destination in india for these namby pamby honeymooners in india .
there is one exception. wenyuange , the royal library , has a black roof because the reason is that it was believed black represented water then and could extinguish fire .
the imposing red gothic structure within this park is seshadri iyer memorial hall , which houses the public library .
location , they say , is everything , obviuously that s somthing taken very seriously at green mensions .
to walk off your excesses , set out to explore the small spice and fruit plantation in astoria .
lining the east of the city is the famous marina beach .
antarctica is not easy to access but that is part of its appeal .
15 kms from mysore is the old capital of tipu sultan , srirangapatna .
ahmedabad became the base camp for the indian freedom struggle with gandhijis sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of the city , the core .
about two-fifths of the protestants are lutherans , and there are many methodists , baptists , and presbyterians .
coffee and tea are grown in plantations in various parts of the province but the area 's enormous wealth comes from oil , natural gas , coal , tin and quartz .
the art of stone carving has been passed along by master craftsmen ( whose fine work can be seen in the famous temples ) down the ages and the finesse of this work remains unmatched .
you can even sign up for cookery classes here .
while the tribal food is not usually available at hotels and restaurants , it is readily available in the small eateries of dabra s villages .
you can get a real treat - the hirsa , or meat cooked in dough covered degh for hours and hours , usually cooked overnight , to end up in a melt in your mouth pasty consistency .
this ancient temple is popularly known as the monkey temple as the temple area is infested with several monkeys .
the place looks lovely in the crisp sunlight .
an old favourite with mussoorie buffs , the tavern has always been known for its scrumptious menu and fabulous live music .
north carolina became the 12th state to unite under america on november 21 , 1789 .
one of the best gifts you can carry back from your holiday is ellora s sinfully delicious pistachio and almond biscuits .
two swords of the emblem are enclosed in a circle with the inscription ek omkar ( god is one .
a land of lush paddy fields , kuttanad is called the rice bowl of kerala and is one of the few places in the world where farming is done below sea level .
the real beauty of andhra pradesh lies in its green farmlands and villages .
applique work also called pipliwork .
around the old city there are other important gurudwaras ( sikh temples ) , like associated with the sikh gurus .
this is a place for shop for clothes and jewellery by leading indian designers like rohit bal , wndell rodericks , sabyasachi , anju modi , anamika khanna and many more .
kuchipudi , the indigenous style of dance of andhra pradesh , was born in the village of kuchelapuri or kuchelapuram , from which it takes its name .
a l.o./m.g. shall also inform by the quickest means the nearest police station any incident of the death or disability of any member of the party or a porter etc. he shall also inform the nearest police station about the commission of any serious crime , along-with a report to be sent to the deputy .
aligarh city is also noted for its handicrafts and metal wares .
ganjam was the first to introduce platinum jewellery in india , and now is only one to have created handicrafts platinum jewellery as well .
when colorado s first settlers arrived , they found comanche , cheyenne , arapaho , and kowa on the great plains , with utes inhabiting the mountains .
mylliem is full of khasi dhabas famed for their rugged cuisine .
special care was taken to maintain the garden , its waterworks as members of the royal family frequented it and stayed in the guesthouse ( mehmankhana ) near it .
west rai le provides visitors with peace and quiet as it is a broad sandy beach with fewer facilities than ao nang .
the emerald pool is located along the way , with clear signs posted .
milou tower is famous for being a rallying place of the literators in old times .
mumbai 's international airport is at sahar ( 30 kms ) & domestic airport is at santacruz ( 26 kms .
the sugandhesa temple is one of the important monuments in kashmir , india .
tham chao le a beautiful cave adorned with stalactites and stalagmites as well as prehistoric cave paintings depicting people , animals and various geometrical shapes .
a little away from the city is ramohalli , a picturesque picnic spot , that boasts of a 400-year old sprawling banyan tree , spread over 4 acres .
king meng rai the great conferred with his friends , king ramkhamhaeng of sukhothai and king ngam muang of phayao before choosing the site where the capital of the lanna kingdom was to be founded .
king ramkhamhaeng opened direct political relations with china and made two trips to china - the first in 1282 to visit emperor kublai khan and the second in 1300 after kublai khans death .
it looks very much like a tortoise and it is called ' kurma peeth ( kurma tortoise .
kullu is home to festivals and celebrations on a grand and colorful note , which are carried on by people of malani tribe .
its boundaries encompass the financial heart of london : an area where 30 % of the high-tech office buildings were built within the last ten years ; an area which houses the london exchange market where a staggering $ 637 billion worth of trading ( 32 % of global business ) takes place every day .
the quiet and beautiful township of bithoor is situated on the kannauj road , 27 km from kanpur .
the east nusa tenggara province consists of over 550 islands , but is dominated by the three main islands of flores , sumba , and timor .
sea canoeing , windsurfing biking , walking , swimming , snorkeling and sailing are , when practiced as they should be , perfectly respectful of nature. diving , the most popular water sport in thailand can be just as green .
but when in goa , eat as the goan do ; the sausage pulao is excellent , as is the fish caldin , pomfret cooked in spicy coconut gravy .
dominating a large part of the market place is the famous royal opera house which stages world class operatic and ballet performances and is home to the royal opera and royal ballet companies .
kumarakom , located on the southern coast of india enjoys a well-balanced tropical climate .
artists such as the taunay brothers , architect auguste grandjean de montigny ( 1776-1850 ) , and painter jean-baptiste debret ( 1768-1848 ) were part of the group .
believe the hype ahmedabad is craft haven .
the state capital is santa fe , other major cities or towns include albuquerque , las cruces , roswell , rio rancho , farmington , clovis , alamogordo , hobbs & carlsbad .
the state s rich green landscape offer travelers tranquil holiday option .
it included the `` panhandle , `` a narrow strip of territory taken from texas by the compromise of 1850 .
the alabama territory was created when congress passes the enabling act allowing the division of the mississippi territory and the admission of mississippi into the union as a state .
the main states of southern india are tamilnadu , kerala , maharashtra , andhrapradesh and karnataka .
the latest craze is the fragrant paan liqueur , which comes in a betel leaf-shaped bottle .
pursued by thousands of u .s . and mexican soldiers , cochise finally surrendered in 1872 , geronimo in 1886 .
ajanta caves tour about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horseshoe .
today , hua hin is a well-established beach destination with word-class facilities coupled with a true sense of thai hospitality .
multinational banks have a few branches in lucknow ; both they and indian banks offer atm facilities so any time money is yours for the asking .
this is also a jolly good place to come if you like brass rubbing ! location : byward street , london , ec3r 5bj .
the history of karkota dynasty after jayatida is a sad story of decline .
considered unsuitable for u .s . settlement , the region was designated a permanent home for native americans in the 1830s , and northern and eastern tribes were relocated there .
mhara gaam , rai , thinks ambience , culture , and mood ; close your eyes and cross these rather kitschy gates .
motor racing activities first started in the post independence period as many of the world war ii airstrips in different parts of the country were left deserted and enthusiasts took advantage of this to pursue this sport .
hotels opulence is enhanced by the wooden doorways fitted with beautiful beligian stained glass bearing the crest of the maharaja of kolhapur .
imagine something that is hot , really hot , but not spicy. nga-thu-um can take some getting used to but this chutney is something you must try once .
do n't miss the old arab settlement of kuttichera ; this population of kozhikode 's muslims , called mappilas or the moplah community , draws their lineage from the arab traders of centuries ago .
the celebrated kishangarh school of miniature paintings is renowned for its lyrical depiction of the divine lovers , radha and krishna .
the painted sculpture of legendary shen wansan is in datang tower ; cultural relics including ancient folk instruments are exhibited in xiaotang tower and back hall .
some of the temples that you may visit during your temple tours to the state of bihar , india are : the aranya devi temple has a special religious significance as according to legendary belief the hindu deity lord krishna visited the local king for alms in the disguise of a hermit .
the sims park , established here in 1874 , has fine lawns and a collection of rare plants and trees picturesquely located along a steep slope .
ayodhya during ancient times was known as kaushaldesa .
the mishri bazaar is the place to buy dry fruits , while katra mohan singh offers a colorful kaleidoscope of bridal glass bangles .
jaswant thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
centrally located in the western part of the state rajasthan , the jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces , forts & temples , worth visiting .
the hill station is placed at the foothills of the mighty dhaulandhar range .
king yasovarman initiated the construction of khajuraho temples in 950 a.d. , which was a marvel of monumental construction in the era of chandela dynasty .
these are some of the wares that mount abu as a hill station in india has to offer to its visitors .
credit cards are accepted in the larger hotels ; restaurants and commercial establishments in the cities but only cash will do in the smaller towns of the state .
the foreign currency exchange counters of different banks are also opened at different places in the city .
hill stations in south india being known for their sleepy image and low profile need to be refurbished .
it soon became a meeting place for contemporary writers such as yeats and george bernard shaw .
silkworm cooked with ginger , garlic and onions is considered a delicacy that you won t find in regular restaurants ; order it at the tuophema village resort or in one of the dhabas .
a few hundred sac and fox native americans lived on a small reservation near tama , but many native americans also lived in cities , especially sioux city .
sometime between april 2 and april 8 , ponce de leon waded ashore on the northeast coast of florida , possibly near present-day st. augustine .
people believe it possible to fill 25 kilometers ( 15.5miles ) of gallery space with the works of art from mogao .
tsot and tsochvoru are small round breads , topped with poppy and sesame seeds , usually eaten with salt tea .
at gangtok s tibet hotel , noodles are encountered under many misleading names , but we have never been let down by the platterful at the golden dragon .
singing boatmen will row you across the lake to the palace , which is a fairy tale delight in striking white and red .
the emperor sat in the centre and discussions and debate were held here .
the city was badly damaged , and the colossus was broken at its weakest point - - the knee .
it is said that ashoka made this agam kuna and it is presumed that the well has endless source of water .
14kms from as a barrage is dispatcher , an aquatic complex with a swimming pool , located at the foothills of shivalik hills and on the bank of river yamuna .
angklung : an ensemble of bamboo instruments quite popular in banyuwangi .
the kurkihar temple is an important tourist site of religious importance in bihar , india and thus definitely warrants a visit during your temple tours to this region .
the two variations of iromba are yongchak and soibum , the latter made of bamboo shoot. green chillies and ngari. try this in any of the chak hotels ( local dhabas ) in the whole of manipur .
the numerous attractions , festivals and holidays are celebrated with a unique ubon flair in ubon .
crucial to whatever was done was the creation of a decent public transport system and the result is the docklands light railway with its speed , comfort and good value .
the average daily move is about 150 kms consisting of approximately five to six hours of jeep driving .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
the ministry of tourism , government of pakistan , has defined trekking as walking below 6000 m. it has designated three zones for trekking ; open , restricted and closed .
the 300-acre park was laid in 1864 by lord cubbon .
the construction of the great wall , drew heavily on the local resources for construction materials , was carried out in line with the local conditions under the management of contract and responsibility system .
believed to have been adopted from a persian art , the technique involves a design being drawn on an alloy of zinc , copper , tin or lead , and then traced , at various depths , with a chisel .
entertainment options are few and far between and usually restricted to an evening at the bar or the odd cultural performances put up during the festive season or peak tourist time .
kunjan nambiar is a poet dramatist of great name and fame in kerala who expertised in the art form of thallu , which literally means `` to jump `` or `` cut a caper .
with trafalgar square behind you , you 'll find the streets leading off the strand to the right lead to the thames while those on the left will take you towards covent garden .
remember to slip in the hotel s scrumptious brownies for a treat .
the hayagriva temple is located at hajo in assam in india .
the gardens adjoining the palace are delightful .
when gandhiji started salt satyagraha in 1930 , allahabad took a leading part at present it houses office of jawahar lal nehru fund and a children school for creative art .
after the decline of the guptas , several small kingdoms ruled this hilly state and established their power in its different regions .
just to the north of kathmandu are two lovely regions where one may experience tamang and sherpa life , temperate forest and alpine pastures , glaciers , lakes and snowy peaks .
more than 300 years ago , job charnock , an english tradesman set up a trading post on the banks of the ganga along the three-village nucleus .
like all of shah jahans buildings , the mosque too , is an architectural marvel a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow courtyard for the faithful to pray in , richly embellished with ornate calligraphic inscriptions and delicate carvings and detailed trelliswork .
changing money can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
its neighboring countries are pakistan , bangladesh , china , tibet and sri lanka .
a l. o. / m . g. shall inform a party of the objects which are allowed to be photographed/filmed. .
fortune resort , this luxurious resort is almost entirely built in padouk , the red timber typical to the andaman and nicobar and designed by charles correa .
during your tours to historical sites and monuments in kashmir , india you can also visit the jama masjid located at nowhatta , srinagar in kashmir , india .
ask any vendor for directions where you can get delicious baigan ki boorani , achaar gosht , and rogan josh , all flavoured with nutmeg , mace , garlic , ginger , coriander leavesand kewra .
you will do so willingly , as prices are reasonable and attractive .
it accommodates and entertains visitors in a way that is minimally intrusive or destructive to the environment and sustains & supports the native cultures in the locations it is operating in .
choice hotels india has over 30 hotels across 23 destination , offering economy to luxury accommodations under the international brands of comforttm , qualitytm and cariontm .
mostly dry deciduous with an abundance of teak on the periphery , the moister core area has large tracts of fragrant sandalwood and rosewood .
destination guide and tourist information on andaman & nicobar islands , beaches , water sports , fort & jail .
this shrine is built of wood and is supported with pillars that are also made of wood .
the naval memorial , a stone s throw away , is also a must see .
across india makar sankranti is celebrated as a harvest festival , but this is the day of kites at jaipur and jaipurites are famous for their expertise in kite flying .
the jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside rajasthan .
the region was named carolana , a word derived from the latin form of charles , in reference to the monarch .
built between 200 bc and 650 ad , the viharas and chaityas at ajanta are masterpieces as are the incredibly ornate temples carved out of hard rock at ellora .
adjacent to the fishing nets is the vasco da gama square , a narrow walkway with little stalls that serve fresh seafood and tender coconuts .
the most important foundation of the king was his capital city of avantipur , which he embellished with two temples : one dedicated to shiva and other to vishnu .
the gymkhana club , the factory of the hindustan photo films company , the government sheep farm and the folg course are all in wenlock downs .
tucked within the binsar wildlife sanctuary , binsar retreat resort , at an altitude of 7 , 500 feet , offers accommodation in five rooms and five luxury tents .
on july 7 , 1742 , oglethorpe , then `` general and commander in chief of the forces of south carolina and georgia `` , defeated the spanish at the battle of bloody marsh on st. simons island , removing the spanish threat to georgia .
beautifully laid out gardens and parks , attractive monuments and marvelous heritage hotels , once the residence of maharajas are testaments to the rajasthan of yesteryears .
this is the delhi that you must discover and fall in love with , this is the delhi that is the heart of india .
locally known as ookayand , phulaich is a gorgeous festival of flowers mainly celebrated in kinnaur district , on the 16th september every year , 10 men of the rajput clan go to the mountains to collect flowers .
the muslims annexed allahabad in 1194 , but the foundations of the modern city were laid by mughal emperor akbar in 1575 .
in bhopal s old chowk bazaar , head straight for the exquisite beached bags ( batuas ) , sold in the narrow alleys .
the ghantal festival is celebrated on a full moon light in the month of june at the guru ghantal monastery in lahaul valley .
independent india has crossed 50 years and these five decades have seen many miracles .
with an estimated crowd of 3 million tourists per year taj attracts about 15000 visitors per day .
the bhagwati temple is located in gourangpur close to asansol in west bengal , india .
tipu 's palace is situated near the fort ; construction of this palace was begun by tipu sultan 's father haider ali , and completed by tipu himself in 1791 .
chaat in chandani chowk , what is now taken for typical delhi cuisine is an eclectic and inviting mix of bania , punjabi and mughlai food .
located just 500 meters from tham lot , the cave can only be visited by boat from bo tho pier .
the most impressive elevated regions of this area are in the north and include volcano sumaco .
surat thani province borders the gulf of thailand to the north and east , chumphon province to the north , nakhon si thammarat and krabi provinces to the south , phang-nga and ranong provinces to the west and nakhon si thammarat province to the east .
the largest province of the south located 685 kilometers from bangkok is surat thani the province with a name that literally means `` city of the good people .
cross sections of parts of the wall show where medieval londoners continued to maintain and add to the wall .
the jaintias cook their pork in black sesame-try it , it has a very distinctive taste .
40 kms away from mysore is the somnathpur temple , a star-shaped structure built in 1260 a.d , an outstanding example of hoysala architecture .
3 kms north of the city , the caves have been carved out of a steep spur of the sahyadri range and a great view of the city , serenity and a piece of history are what you get to take back from here .
muhammad hanif was the superintendent of masons .
shrines on the northern edge of the corridor are venerated as the hindus .
the port assumed a new strategic importance and began to enjoy commercial prosperity .
it is street fashion , leather accessories , books or curio , janpath has it all .
the royal city bikaner has a timeless charm like no other .
cochin proudly boasts a rich cultural heritage , but is one of the most fast paced and modern cities in india .
if you want to give yourself ample time to explore the kanger valley national park and the rich tribal culture of bastar , the place to stay is naman bastar resort in a village near jagdalpur .
here , after the battle of trafalgar , the body of admiral sir horatio nelson was laid prior to his state funeral at st paul 's cathedral .
criss-crossed by the national highways , the state provides an ideal location for several resorts .
the township of tansen bears a rich legacy of the traditional art and architecture .
the park is covered by a canopy of diverse species of trees such as wild gardenia , asoka , and apocynaceae that are scattered around sa bok khorani , an attractive emerald pond after which the park is named where visitors can swim .
it was one of the first bastions of british power in india .
richly carved buttresses , domes turrets , spires and stained - glass windows make it hard to believe that this grand building is one of the main stations of mumbai and accommodates almost half a million commuters daily .
rooms are tastefully decorated and informed by all sorts of spiritual things .
the temple towns of orissa are also popular for their lovely beaches-both temples and beaches combine to make this state an exceptional destination .
osian is 27 km from khimsar and was a well-known trading center between the 8th and the 12th centuries .
germans , czechs , swedes , danes , irish , and italians were especially numerous and often remain concentrated in close-knit communities today .
in the time of king yasakara ( 939-48 ) a ' math ' ( hospice ) was built for the students of india , who came to kashmir for study and meditation .
the first permanent settlements in kansas were outposts , fort leavenworth ( 1827 ) , fort scott ( 1842 ) , and fort riley ( 1853 ) , established to protect travelers along the santa fe and oregon trails .
a regular haunt of the writer graham greene , its back bar is reputed to be the smallest in england measuring just 4ft by 7ft .
taxis are abundant and affordable , the bus network and mass rapid transit ( mrt ) rail system are both efficient and reliable .
by around 1845 laminated iron was taking over as a more efficient and economic material than cast iron , heralding a spectacular rejuvenation in the conception of buildings .
there is a tourist lodge on the lake that provides basic accommodation and has a decent restaurant .
reyog trance dance : traditional ponorogo dance with 15 dancers wearing peacock-feather headdresses and tiger mask .
you should also visit the baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the anasagar lake .
done up like a typical greek tavern , this one s a must for those who wish to dig their forks into authentic greek food .
since the 1950s , florida s public education system and public places have undergone great changes .
with their slant mongol eyes , prominent cheek bones and cheerful smiles , the people of the lahaul give visitors an enthusiastic welcome rahul was the son of buddha and the name lahaul is derived from rahul .
you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
blacks , most of whom live in portland , account for 1.6 percent of the state 's population .
the large slopes of garhwal and kumaon covered with seasonal snow become an ideal place for skiing in the winter months .
namtok khlong haeng 500-meter high waterfall , which springs from khao thep bencha , krabis tallest mountain , is 10 kilometers from amphoe khao phanom .
between 1820 and 1920 blacks outnumbered whites in south carolina but after 1920 the state 's white population grew more rapidly than the black population because many blacks migrated to the north .
suya correctly assessed that these frequent calamities occurred due to heavy rains and excessive water of vitasta river which could not easily get out with swiftness , through a gorge near varahmulla , as the compressed passage there bad got blocked with silt and huge boulders .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
the snow line in karakoram range varies between 4200 to 4500 meters during the summers .
geographically , jambi is located between 0o 45 ' - 2o 45 ' northern latitude and between 101o 10 ' - 104o 55 ' east longitude .
monsoons should be avoided climbing is relatively safe , but that should n't stop all climbers from taking precautions .
trekking provides the thrilling adventure of an uphill climb on narrow bridle paths , breathtaking views across growing hills , valleys and gorges and the changing vegetation at every turn .
the international tech park is meticulously designed and built to suit the requirements of international hi-tech companies in the field of information technology , software development , electronics , telecommunication , research and development , financial services and other non-polluting hi-tech industries .
the red temple is a digambar jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple .
in case of partial disablement , the amount of compensation shall be proportionate to the percentage of disablement as declared by aw civil surgeon .
netaji subhash road is the centre of the onetime english commercial houses which today flourish in indian hands .
but for those determined to play the business game in this state , here are a few pointers .
the intersection with the chinese border makes it particularly vulnerable to tran s border intrusions .
fancy dress carnivals , ' gymkhanas ' ice hockey and dances enliven every season in shimla .
if you want the true flavour of the city follow the twisty streets that disappear into the old town , east of the jagdish mandir .
the mausoleum of emperor akbar represents his philosophy and secular outlook , combining the best of hindu and muslim architectures in a superlative region .
i m not much of a shopper , but i like the handicrafts in darjeeling .
evaluating environmental and cultural factors , initiatives by hospitality providers to promote recycling , energy efficiency , water reuse , and the creation of economic opportunities for local communities are an integral part of eco-tourism. .
rooms are airy with bamboo furnishings and tiled floors. cosy restaurant and bar .
the wide street that runs from trafalgar square towards the city is the strand .
another historical site that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in kashmir is the makhdoom sahib that is a shrine located on the south of the hari parbat hill .
interstate bus services linking ahmedabad to other cities in the state and beyond are regular and efficient .
kamala nehru park was named after the wife of india 's first prime minister , jawaharlal nehru .
khaman is another must eat , a steamed chickpea cake cut into squares , extremely popular in silvassa .
shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept .
polo owes its origin to the british , even though it was first played in india .
although we do not know the true shape and appearance of the colossus , modern reconstructions with the statue standing upright are more accurate than older drawings .
the nearest railhead , silchar , in assam , is 180 km away .
when spring comes to the hills and the flowers are in full bloom , sikkimese cooks throw them into the soup pot , stir fry them in woks or preserve them in pickles jars .
on nag paharthe snake mountain the panchkund and the cave of saint agastya are located .
to make your visit to singapore a truly memorable experience , please contact your nearest singapore tourism board ( stb ) office for complimentary brochures and other tourist information .
the most popular stretch for river rafting is on the ganges , near rishikesh in uttaranchal .
the governor of tripura now lives in a palace that was built in 1917 and named the `` `` by birendra krishna manikya , a km away from the ujjayanta palace .
the park luxury boutique hotel overlooks the historic 18th century jantar mantar , close to connaught place , original and contemporary in design , its rejuvenating spaces are complemented by edgy artworks and sensual fabrics .
chiang mai is also blessed with pristine natural resources of mountains ( dois ) , waterfalls , and other nature-based tourist attractions .
car rental companies will rent vehicles with drivers .
the kulcha is sweet or savoury , sometimes flavoured with aniseed .
apart from anarray of handicrafts , ima keithal sells a stunning range of pickles .
pastoris ( shepherds ) started as a performance of christmas carols in front of the nativity scene in preparation for midnight mass .
during your temple tours to kolkata , india you can visit the barakar temples at barakar that are located very close to asansol in west bengal , india .
they are categorized into eastern and western caves but all belong to the mahayana vihara type except the 4 the one , which is a chaitya or prayer hall of the hinayana sect of buddhism .
hawa mahal is the most recognizable monument of jaipur .
after the united states acquired the louisiana territory from france in 1803 , president thomas jefferson commissioned explorers meriwether lewis and william clark to explore the west ( see lewis and clark expedition .
the assembly of the first level was achieved by the use of twelve temporary wooden scaffolds , 30 meters high , and four larger scaffolds of 40 meters each .
johnson s cafe is arguably the most popular restaurant in manali , though bright , clean and cheerful , the decor isn t much to write home about ; the king here is undeniably the food .
a city that easily , effortlessly combines in itself the lineage of the old and the panache of the new .
there are gorgeous themed rooms in the verandah in the forest of matheran , high ceilinged and spacious and the verandah is perfect for lounging with a book in the bright sunshine on chilly days .
built in 1621 by parvezshah , son of emperor jahangir , this stone mosque is also known as sanji masjid and the structure is a marvel of architecture .
while shopping in aimer , one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing rajasthani culture and style .
over the past 15 years , deep sea fishing competitions have grown in size and popularity with phuket and krabi as centres for a growing fleet of contenders .
this site offers you relevant information about the temples in kolkata , india and takes you on a tour to this lovely and ancient city that offers you a glimpse into the ancient past of this city with its extremely rich cultural heritage .
celebration of the gher ghoomer festival before the chamunda devi temple has been a tradition of the local tribes for the last six centuries .
unlike other beach resorts , where natural surroundings are used as magnets to attract tourists , pattaya makes an all-out attempt to provide the best of everything .
when the arabs conquered egypt , they admired alexandria and its wealth .
trekkers often continue on to the sacred shrine of muktinath , near the 5 , 415-meter thorang-la pass and down into the lovely valley of manang .
inside the gate of the fort there is the church of bom jesus , which attracts most of the daman s visitors .
this shrine is of immense religious importance to the hindus. there is a huge ice lingam inside the amarnath cave that represents the main deity .
by the mid-1700s only a handful of native settlements survived in kentucky .
if a l.o./m.g. thinks that danger to the security of the country would increase if activities of the party are not checked , he shall inform the nearest police station , by the quickest possible means and obtain police assistance in stopping the party from carrying out its mission .
beach , where tables are out in the evening .
do not take away flora and fauna in the forms of cuttings , seeds or roots it is illegal , specially in the himalaya .
to catch the painters at work , walk into vijaylakshmi kalamkari arts on agraham street .
poovar island resort : clean , green and glourious sunsets ; are key features of the resort .
nearest underground stops : chancery lane , farringdon , russell square .
one clap at the gate would travel seven levels up to the fort .
once called the de 's tavern , milou tower perches next to zhenfeng bridge which is at the southwest corner of zhouzhuang .
part of the territory of orleans , louisiana became the 18th state to unite under america on april 30 , 1812 .
over the years hundreds of celebrities have made their way to madame tussaud 's 'stage door ' to be received in the private studio where the sculptor makes precise measurements and photographs the subject 's head from every possible angle .
works with temporal themes , such as portraits of exalted personages , became part of rio 's artistic production .
there are some wonderful deluxe hotels in agra and a lot of them vie to give you a view of the taj mahal .
this city is also popular because of the belief that the jain tirthankar , lord mahavira was born here .
this large state is becoming increasingly important to india in the techno savvy age of cyber optics and virtual reality .
in fact , it began as independent walls for different states when it was first built , and did not become the `` great `` wall until the qin dynasty .
rosewood inlay work , also popular , is an art confined to mysore , unlike the sandalwood carvings the rest of the state is known for .
chennai is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
winter visitors will need one thick jacket/coat , socks , gloves and sweaters .
kalimpong is well connected to the other major east indian himalayan destinations of gangtok and darjeeling , both of which are less than 3 hours away .
strangely , despite being catholic , the head of the order is the queen ( who is also supreme head of the church of england .
kadamtala , a village that feeds scrumptious venison to hungry travelers ; the meat , served in nondescript steel bowls , is made with ground spices and topped up with coriander .
prior to the arrival of european and mexican explorers , roughly 8 , 000 native americans representing two distinct groups inhabited idaho : the great basin shoshone and bannock tribes of the shoshone-bannock and the shoshone .
the lewis & clark expedition crossed montana in 1805 on their historic trek to the pacific ocean .
great wall went through constant extensions and repairs in later dynasties .
the highest peak , mount semeru is the highest in java while the brantas ( 314 km ) and bengawan solo ( 540 km ) are the two big rivers .
these lands were sold to settlers through extensive advertising campaigns , with some companies sending representatives to europe to encourage immigrants to come to nebraska .
the spanish and the english were the first to venture up the northwest coast of the pacific ocean .
places of interest in and around muzaffarabad are : pir channasi , shaheed gali and patika .
in 408 bc , the cities united to form one territory , with a unified capital , rhodes .
following a 250 year tradition , the weavers create a contrast of vibrant colors and pastel shades in vegetable dyes .
some of the best places to buy locally knitted sweaters , shawls , caps and mufflers are the mall in shimla , the bhutti weavers colony ( 6 km from kullu town ) , the mall in manali , mcleodganj , and the various state emporia that dot himachal pradesh .
allow for time to enjoy the panoramic and magnificent sites of the awesome mountains , rivers , flora and fauna .
a military coup followed , during which allende committed suicide rather than surrender to his attackers .
the state capital is denver other major cities or towns include colorado springs , aurora , lakewood , fort collins , pueblo , arvada , westminster , boulder , greeley .
with the acquisition of louisiana , jefferson nearly doubled the size of the fledgling u .s . and made it a world power .
aurangabad seems to have more than its share of secondary monuments and sights .
mangalore pearl : a delicious fusion of the konkani and coastal food in the state has peppered the streets of karnataka with places where you can feast on the seafood as well as meat preparations .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight .
the cannon on the front porch looks out onto the mall , while stuffed antlered heads stare down at visitors from wooden plaques fighting for space on the walls .
look out for the drinking fountain set in the church wall , it was the first metropolitan public drinking fountain and was originally erected on holborn hill in 1859 .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
thanks to the mall s elevated status as the capital of himachal , shimla sells handicrafts from the entire state-kullu caps , kinnauri woolens , chamba rummals and lots more .
situated in western rajasthan , jodhpur has long attracted both the domestic and outside tourist .
kufri , is a famous tourists spot only 16 kms from shimla .
there are quite a few temples in jammu and kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the raghunath temples , kheer bhawani temple , sudh mahadev temple , vaishno devi , amarnath and the shankaracharya temple .
bhindranwale was killed , and so were thousands of his men and soldiers .
gordon house in the south mumbai is a boutique hotel that offers three floors of exotic themed rooms choose between the scandinavian , mediterranean and country cottage style .
the province is unique in its folk culture , which is expressed in the indigenous cuisine , handicrafts , such as silk and cotton products , basketry , and bronze-ware , and traditional events such as the candle festival held every july .
the defense of california , completely neglected by mexico and lacking support from unstable california administrations , led to the unusual condition where any of several world powers could have easily occupied california .
aurangabad has plenty of well stocked shops and malls that will supply all requirements for toiletries , cosmetics , medicines and sundries like camera films etc .
for centuries kashmir was the house of the greatest sanskrit scholars , and at least one great indian religion of 'shaivism ' has found some of its most eloquent teachers on the banks of the vitasta .
as one stands surrounded by the stillness of the ruins one can well imagine the town at the height of its glory as the capital of chavdas .
you can relax in the upstairs lounge or roof terrace , or take a scroll on the lakeside rode , where you ll find a jetty with boat rides on offer .
the statues were carved by four greek sculptors : bryaxis , leochares , scopas , and timotheus , each responsible for one side .
the site of the ancient bhardwaj ashram , said to have been visited by lord rama on his way to the forest now lies in the centre of the city .
even in summer , the evenings tend to be cool so do carry a light wrap with you .
if you fancy a laid back holiday in a hundred year old colonial bunglows set in 39 acres of greenery , sitla estate mukteshwar is the place you .
natives called the place cha lang , which evolved to tha lang the name of the main town to the north of the island .
however , we can tell you that it is not 39 - it is actually closer to 400 depending on where you start and finish .
in the garden city you can visit also the maharaja 's palace and government buildings .
the garba on the other hand , is an equally fascinating , although a little more complex dance .
on the sixth floor of the grand ashok , painted in colors of greens and wood , it serves the best authentic chinese with cantonese and sichuan you ll find in bangalore .
later , when the rage for beaver hats had passed and oregon 's beaver supply was all but exhausted , the mountain men showed the early pioneers a route they had picked out in their trapping years .
when the jesuit fathers first arrived in brazil they found that the indians performed ritual songs and dances accompanied by rudimentary wind and percussion instruments .
according to french archaeologist professor jarrige , by 6 , 000 bc farmers on the bolan river were cultivating barley , wheat and dates using floodwater and storing their surplus in large mud bins. the people here were growing cotton and making pottery .
right next to the charminar , this 400 year old market , laad bazaar sells every thing from kitchen implements to diamond jewellery .
remains from the kushana era ( 1 st century ad ) have been found around the site of the bharadwaj ashram little remains of this ancient epoch in the history of this town .
the spread of settlers in the east brought the ottawa , the huron , and other native american tribes into wisconsin , where they in turn displaced native tribes .
state museum , a representative collection of himachal pradesh 's rich heritage exhibits include archeological artifacts , carvings , paintings and sculptures .
built by the east india company in 1639-1640 , the fort marks the beginning of madras as a modern city .
also one can see the hayagriba madhava temple reached by a long stone stairway .
the river jia bhoroli , kapili and manas are the best places for golden mahseer angling since the days of the british .
this desert city of rajasthan is famous for its attractions which include - forts , temples & camel festival. known as the camel country , bikaner is has also made a mark in industrial sector .
nakhon ratchasima located approximately 260 kilometers northeast of bangkok ; the city itself serves as the gateway to the lower northeastern region .
a great al fresco beachside restaurant keeps you happy and , if you overdo there , there s the swimming pool to keep you fit .
the fort william was named after king william lli of england , and in the fort are a church , market , post and telegraph office , cinema , swimming pool , boxing stadium , football and firing range .
there is a museum inside the junagarh fort which has collections of valuable antique objects .
delhi today is one of the most elegant capitals in the world .
kewzing village is the place to stay if you want a first-hand experience of sikkimese rural life .
singapore has been voted the best business city in the world for the fifth year running by readers of the business traveller asia-pacific magazine .
the semi-circular falls bring together both the iguassu and parana rivers , as well as brazil and argentina .
apart from used personal belongings , visitors are allowed to bring to nepal free of duty cigarettes ( 200 ) or cigars ( 50 ) , distilled liquor ( one 1.15 liter bottle ) , and film ( 15 rolls .
this lovely and unique piece of architecture was constructed on a narrow strip of land located in between two water tanks .
in the mountain areas warm clothes are generally a must .
kalimpong 's attractions include three buddhist monasteries , spectacular churches , an excellent private library for the study of tibetan and himalayan language and culture , a sericulture centre and a fine view of the surrounding countryside .
in 1806 , lt. zebulon m. pike visited the south central nebraska as part of a government program to explore the newly acquired louisiana purchase .
attracted by the promise of abundant land and game , settlers flocked through the cumberland gap or down the ohio river to kentucky .
as there are limits on the number of tourists allowed on the island , it is advisable to book in advance in order to avoid the risk of joining the waiting list .
there are several temples that are worth paying a visit to during your temple tours to assam , india. some of these temples are kamakhya devi temple , surya pahar temple , hayagriva temple , umananda temple and the shiva temple .
the islands are now fast becoming an attractive holiday destination for the anthropologist and the beach lover .
although kentucky declared itself a neutral state , both the union and confederate governments recognized its strategic potential , and both sides recruited openly .
a rather decrepit building until as early as a decade ago , it has been lovingly restored by its owner into the beautiful establishment it is today mother of - pearl windows , terracotta-tiled floors and gorgeous rooms .
glenburn is one of the tea gardens in darjeeling to take in guests .
places of the order of , kempty falls , lal tibba coupled with the activities of the genre of dehradun-mussoorie trekking and gun hill trekking which is the second most highest place of this hill station in india , add up to the beauty of mussoorie .
during the nine days , the state government arranges music , dance , folk dance , doll shows , wrestling and sports competitions .
built in 1942 , mahesh vilas palace heritage property has luxurious rooms , and a billiards room for a game or two .
to reach thenamtok khlong thom waterfall visitors should travel 45 kilometers from town to amphoe khlong thom , then take sukhaphiban 2 road for another 12 kilometers .
mango festivals , to celebrate the reign of this king of fruits , crowds throng for three days to sample over 500 different types of mangoes and even buy mango sampling for their gardens .
minjar is the most popular fair of chamba which is attended by a large number of people from every nook and corner of the district .
indoor climbing gyms help in developing many skills in outdoor climbing especially rock climbing .
just 27 km north of ajmer is the small erstwhile kingdom of kishangarh , whose remarkable contribution to rajasthans culture has been in the field of painting .
for one , it has been a popular hill retreat right from the days of tipu sultan who is said to have visited here occasionally .
ask them in amritsar , and they will tell you that if for nothing else you must travel here for the roadside chhola bhaturas .
one of bangalore 's most attractive features continues to be its pleasant weather .
the state capital is baton rouge , other major cities or towns include lake charles , monroe , new orleans , and shreveport .
in 1570 the spanish started a religious mission on the rappahannock river near the site of fredericksburg , but native americans wiped it out .
due to its advantageous location , cochin has experience the affluence from the sea borne trade and at the same time enjoyed various cultural influences brought in by different traders and visitors since the ancient times .
today , it takes in guests from all over the country as temporary members , so you have no excuse to miss out .
this picturesque waterfall adds to the beauty of mussoorie as the queen of hill stations in india .
hotels and resorts at dadra & nagar haveli usually arrange various tribal dance performances for visitors , a great way to lose yourself in wholly alien culture .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
the ruins of those periods can still be seen on the bellary road , at lal bagh , ulsoor and gavi gangadhareswar temple .
in october , the streets of gujarat are filled once again with people heading out to different venues to dance the night away .
the golconda fort is famous for its acoustics , palaces , factories , ingenious water supply system and the famous fateh rahben gun , one of the cannons used in the last siege of golconda by aurangzeb , to whom the fort ultimately fell .
mussoorie has rightly earned for itself the epithet of , queen of hill stations as it oozes with the true resplendence of nature that any other place would die to be called as , among the rest of the hill stations in india .
other sites of note are the 5th century agastyatirtha tank , the fort and the bhutanath temples .
for top of the line five star hotels , you have to drive a few kilo meters further away .
the majority of the work is from the 7th and 8th centuries ad though .
kumbhalgarh provides an excellent view of the countryside where many fierce battles were fought ; it also has its significance of being the birth place of maharana pratap .
it goes without saying , but don t forget while you re visiting nagaland .
any bangalorean , who has been away from home , will undoubtedly crave the desserts at the city s unique ice-cream shop , the corner house , which has now spread to multiple branches beyond the initial one in the residency road .
the gaunt interiors of the fort transport you back to an era long gone .
in ad 956 , an earthquake shook alexandria , and caused little damage to the lighthouse .
it also broke a taboo , culminating in court decisions which stripped him of his immunity from prosecution although the former ruler has not been prosecuted yet .
you will also find beautifully carved wood and bamboo items , including furniture and lovely knick knacks .
in the year of his arrival , he and a botanist named joseph arnold discovered the world 's largest flower , at manna river near lubuktapi , in south bengkulu. the flower is now known as rafflesia arnoldi and is the official symbol of bengkulu province .
also distinctive for their fine workmanship area velvet , satin and silk bags , with zari floral motifs , used by the women bhopal to keep cosmetics and suparis .
chandika temple , this beautiful shrine of goddess chandika attracts large number of devotees during the holy navratras .
however , since local entrepreneurs and technology giant texas instruments discovered bangalore potential as a high-tech city in the early 1980 's .
mahabodhi temple bihar the anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by raja anaji sometime in the 1150 a.d. .
the nearest railhead is in ratlam ( madhya pradesh ) which is 80km from kumbhalgarh and is connected with all the major cities of the country .
the islands long history has shaped the distinctive phuket of the present with its diverse ethnic groups , culture , architectural influence , and fine cuisine .
281 kilometers south of bangkok , hua hin , which literally means stone head in thai , is the oldest beach resort of the country and is still very popular .
when st paul visited the city , the temple was adorned with golden pillars and silver statuettes , and was decorated with paintings .
the many state-of-the-art shopping centers , recreation complexes and toll-roads have become hallmarks of the city .
the tandoori lobster , fish tikka and prawn curry , all three simply scrumptious , it is recommended without hesitation .
visitors are treated to some of the most fabulous dance performances .
in 1294 , the delhi sultans stormed daulatabad and looted its wealth , paving the way for eccentric mughal ruler mohammed bin tughlaq , who took over the fort in 1327 .
the top of the dodabetta peak remains covered by mist most of the time but on a clear day , you can have a look at the landscape as far as the plains of coimbatore and the mysore plateau .
another key place for the couples is sibpur , located in this sought after honeymoon destination in india , which is home to a two century old banyan tree which stands tall at a proud 100 feet much to the delight of honeymooners in india .
in every corner are sizzling tawas with sabut dana khichadi ( a light spiced sago concoction ) , dal kacoris , samosas , mathris , bhutta kis ( grated corn sauteed in ghee and garnished with coconut and coriander leaves ) garadu ( deep fried potatoes ) and countless other delights .
they are mostly located in the quieter cantonment area and the new tourist complex .
the ancient indian tradition of ayurveda is a holistic science of preventive and therapeutic treatments that detoxify and cure not just the body but also the mind and soul .
every summer , mughals would travel from their capital cities in the plains of india to their beloved valley .
in the old royal naval college , designed by sir christopher wren , is the painted hall , a front runner for the title of finest dining hall in the world .
about 100 kilometres to the north of prachuap khiri khan is hua hin , thailand 's first beach resort which is renowned for golf and spa .
everybody who goes to ajmer makes the half hour bus journey up nag pahar to the town of pushkar .
in agra the main shopping areas are the sadar bazar , kinari bazar and munro road .
the first is a mere half an hour by bus from badami while the second takes a two hour journey .
jaisalmer , an important ancient trading centre because of its strategic location on the camel trade routes , is often described as the ' golden city .
in kipling camp meals are fairly good and you can request chef to rustle up your favourite food too .
during the great fire of london in 1666 , samuel pepys climbed to the top of the church 's brick tower to watch the fire 's progress .
state and interstate roadways buses , rtdc conducted tours and coaches connect ajmer to most important cities in the region , including ahmedabad , jaipur , udaipur , jodhpur , bikaner , mt. abu , jaisalmer , mumbai and delhi .
the umaid bhawan palace was built in the 20th century as a famine relief project , providing employment to its people over a time period of 16 long years .
the enchanting hawa mahal is a multi-layered palace , with a profusion of windows and stone screens .
today , ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the hindus as well as muslims .
skip on coconut milk , laze in the sun or scout around for more signs of life .
today , oklahoma boasts the largest native american population in the nation ( 252 , 420 ) .
however , some argue that antarctica is changing , and by human made causes rather than natural ones .
the city of ajmer lies in the heart of rajasthan , some 130 km west of jaipur .
the village of kumarakom is a cluster of little islands on the vembanad lake , and this small water world is part of the kuttanad region .
allahabad is among the largest cities in uttar pradesh .
koshy s has something for everyone - from families gorging on the famous sunday breakfast of appam and stew and elderly bangaloreans having their continental lunch to the glitterati having their evening coffee .
the nicobari huts , with their traditional decor , are a treat for eyes , the bar aptly named after bacchus , has tasty seafood appetizers .
iromba is best eaten with steamed rice while it s fresh .
this temple is about 150 years old. the temple is a stunning piece of architecture made of bricks .
most sculptures are religious in nature , and borrow heavily from mythological themes .
the best way to experience nepal 's unbeatable combination of natural beauty and cultural riches is to walk through them .
tourist bungalows , located on a hilltop in sendra island , at the heart of keibul lamjao national park , this tourist bungalows provides a bird s eye view of the loktak lake. don t look for luxury ; what you get here is basic yet comfortable accommodation .
a fun to shop around for handicraft as well as all manner of made in china goods , diu s bustling night market near in the vegetable market ( ask any local for direction ) is a must visit for every travelers in diu , if only for the atmosphere .
during the month of kartik ( oct . / nov . ) , devotes throng in large numbers here to take a dip in the sacred lake .
but , if you chose carefully , andhra pradesh is as rewarding a destination as its more popular neighbours , tamil nadu , kerala and karnataka .
shermay 's cooking school is where cookbook author , shermay , teaches cooking in her own demonstration kitchen .
karachi bakery - this is among three things besides the charminar and biryani that old hyderabadis take great pride in .
bangalore is directly connected by rail with ahmedabad , mumbai , calcutta , cochin , delhi , guwahati , howarah , hyderabad , mangalore , chennai , mysore , nagpur , tiruvananthapuram , vasco-da-gama ( goa ) and other cities in india .
the ground floor is divided up into sumptuous leather upholstered booths , whilst downstairs the ambience is slightly calmer with plenty of room and a feeling of exclusivity .
pori festival is celebrated in lahaul with enormous fanfare .
the fort of khimsar has a lot of diversity in its architecture .
just before world war ii it was turned into a hotel with large rooms , deep fireplaces and baize billiard tables .
bangkok was founded in 1782 by the first monarch of the present chakri dynasty .
first , you will be greeted by the strong , heady scent of spices and jasmine garlands , followed by the treasure trove of silverware , brassware , ethnic jewelry and colourful silk saris , dazzling to behold in little india .
blooming forth in perfumes of flowers. in the riot of colors of multi-hued birds .
the marwar festival is held every year in memory of the heroes of rajasthan .
ahmedabad railway station is located east of the old city ; auto rickshaws , taxis and city buses available outside the station facilitate access to the city .
the galleries have working models in popular science , motive power , mining , metals , petroleum , electricity , communications and electronics .
the vigorous upper reaches of the yellow river starts in qinghai province to hekouzhen in inner mongolia .
for a authentic and delightful culinary experience in the heart of hyderabad , walked into zafraan laguna , a restaurant as exotic as its name .
when the famous arab traveler ibn battuta visited alexandria in 1349 , he could not enter the ruinous monument or even climb to its doorway .
nainital , which is a famous retreat for delhi 's denizens , is popular among the trekkers and travelers for its cluster of great lakes , too - naini lake , bhimtal lake and nakuchia lake .
also scrumptious breakfast favourite are the jalebis , made of maida and sugar syrup , the orange swirls are deep fried in vast amount of ghee .
cowboy state , equality state , big sky , wyoming was named from two delaware indian words mecheweamiing , which are translated ' at the big flats ' ( large plains .
since the nineteenth century , archeological excavations have been undertaken at the mausoleum site .
the craftsmen of andhra have given to india their unique creations - kalamkari vegetable dyed textiles , lacquer paintings from nirmal , wood craft , pochampalli silks , hyderabad pearls and an extremely attractive and glittering array of glass bangles .
an insignificant looking board bearing the name of kynance hangs from a tree and is discernible to only those tourists who have an eye for details .
britishers brought locomotive technology to the subcontinent and in order to augment their defence to stop the russian invasion on india , a 42 kms long khyber railway lines was built by them in 1920s from peshawar to landi kotal at an enormous cost of 6 million rupees .
you ll struggle with dormitory accommodation , looking for cheap grub , and trying to figure out bus routes and timings but you ll just about survive .
the grand fort presides over the lovely bekal beach .
brigham young led the first party of mormons across wyoming in 1847 , and thousands of people crossed wyoming s mountain passes as part of the california gold rush of 1849 .
arbuda , the hill serpent descended from the hills to act as a savior for lord shiva 's bull , nandi .
a party shall for the transport of l.o./m.g. from rawalpindi / islamabad to mountains and back to rawalpindi / islamabad from the date he reports to a leader till the date a party is debriefed or returned to rawalpindi/islamabad. .
phuket , pattaya , samet and krabi. despite the speed , jet-skiing in thailand is a safe sport .
it also carries an inscription in persian declaring jahangirs accession to the mughal throne .
for those that have business and more business on their minds , the international tech park in bangalore offers a superb business advantage to corporations seeking a foothold in india , one of the world 's biggest emerging markets .
this is kumarakom , one of the worlds most talked about destinations .
the rivers like the sutlej , beas ( in himachal pradesh ) , teetsa ( in sikkim ) , and yamuna also offer sporting challenges .
flora & fauna sub alpine and alpine forests are found in the upper reaches of the himalayas .
ooty is a land of picturesque picnic spots .
twin bridges which comprise shide bridge and yongan bridge are the most famous and is considered the symbol of zhouzhuang .
apart from the geological , zoological , botanical and anthropological galleries , there are outstanding archaeological exhibits .
just before dawn on november 27 , 1868 , lt. col. george a. custer led the 7th u .s . cavalry in an attack on a peaceful indian encampment .
the state capital is bismarck while the 10 largest cities are fargo , bismarck , grand forks , minot , dickinson , mandan , jamestown , west fargo , williston , wahpeton .
it is an experience alien to the sense of safety and stability enjoyed by four-wheel drivers and participants of jeep safaris .
some of the best places to source them are the central cottage industries emporium , janpath ; the long row of state emporia on baba kharak singh marg ; the crafts museum , mathura road ; dilli haat ; and hauz khas village .
the highest temperature recorded was 119 while the lowest was -54 .
only men wear it in mizoram , but don t let that stop you from gifting it to woman-it s worn only on special occasions , is a great memento to have from mizoram .
ramgarh bungalows , located in an area famous for its orchards , ramgarh bunglows carry more than a whiff of raj nostalgia .
if you can t tell the real form the fake , then strike bargains at the stalls on laad bazaar or pathargatti , otherwise mangatrai pearls and jagdamba pearls are two big names that offer the best , well at a responsibly steep price .
a lovely natural harbor and winding creek set off the city of mumbai from the long , narrow coast of western india .
that 's more than the turnover of the next three largest centers , new york , tokyo and singapore combined .
schools of music existed in bahia in the early 17th century and religious music was played in churches throughout the colony .
amidst such solitude , adventurous travelers will discover an ethereal landscape that lingers in the memory .
at the night safari , you can look a rhinoceros in the eye , hear the howls of a pack of striped hyenas or watch giraffes glide serenely across the plain in the still of the night .
there is live entertainment every monday followed by karaoke every thursday night .
hanuman dhara is located on a steep hillside ; it is approachable by a flight of 360 steps .
the city of allahabad is among the largest cities of uttar pradesh and situated at the confluence of three rivers ganga , yamuna and the invisible saraswati .
it does , however , have one claim to fame n at 600 feet it is the second tallest building in britain , after the much prettier canary wharf tower in docklands .
home of pandit motilal nehru and his son pandit jawaharlal nehru , this house has now been turned into a museum memorabilia of the nehru family are displayed here .
phraya ratsada korsimbi also helped to improve the welfare of local residents and set up the market system in the countryside. in 1916 , phuket became a province .
an ancient town that lies 56 km south of aurangabad , paithan is renowned for its famous paithani silk saris .
trying to find mementos ? drop in to gurtel , also near the cemetery , which has lovely home furnishings and beadwork .
around & about by air aurangabad airport is 10 km east of the city and is connected by daily flights to mumbai and delhi via udaipur and jaipur .
durgam ceruvu is near madhapur , just beyond shilparamam and hitec city in hyderabad , boats and angling equipments are available on hire .
ajanta lies 99 km northeast , about two hours away by road , while ellora is much closer , just 30 km to the northwest .
one of the most centrally located hill station of uttar pradesh ; almora is based at a height of 1646 meters .
copies of the statue were made , including a large prototype at cyrene ( libya ) .
finally , visit verdant dadra & nagar haveli , which is designed to relax and soothe with its landscape gardens , tranquil forests and picturesque tribal villages .
thalassery was the first british settlement on the malabar coast .
in karnataka there are the chamundi hills .
tea gardens at munnar the other hill states of himachal pradesh and jammu and kashmir provides a breathtaking variety of the himalayan splendor .
in addition , the phi phi islands are famous as the location where the movie `` the beach `` featuring leonardo di caprio was shot .
today , the province of ubon ratchathani is the largest and one of the most important provinces in northeastern thailand .
the union territory daman is divided by the river damanganga into nani daman in the north and moti dman in the south .
rock climbing is largely balance and not strength .
parikshith thampuran museum adjacent to the shiva temple was the durbar ( court ) of the cochin rajas .
government central museum was constructed in 1876 when prince of wales has visited india and opened to public in 1886 .
charminar is a rectangular four arched monumental gate often described as ' the arch of triumph of the east .
a bride s wardrobe will , 99 out of 100 cases , have at least one mysore silk sari .
unlike other sanctuaries , however , the building was made of marble , with a decorated facade overlooking a spacious courtyard .
thus , despite the fact that both noppharat thara beach and phi phi administratively are a part of krabi province , most tourists think that ko phi phi is part of phuket province .
the imperial art deco hotel , with its signature king palm trees , is often referred to as the museum hotel , built in 1931 , it has played host to such eminent personalities as mahatma gandhi , pandit nehru , lord mountbatten and muhammed ali jinnah , among others .
the place does become a little too crowded on saturdays and sundays , but a walk on the heath should relieve any sense of claustrophobia .
bengkulu province has an indigineous community consisted of manna , muko-muko , and minang .
hotels in agartala offer basic amenities and few have air conditioned rooms .
the ceremonial masks and lamps make for exceedingly attractive gifts .
live counters of teppanyaki , yakitori , korean , barbeque as well as a well-stocked noodles bar bring authentic oriental food to you .
sometimes certain dialects and accents can be detected in the speech of more isolated rural north carolinians , especially on the outer banks , where descendants of early english settlers remained spatially isolated for many decades .
his arrest and subsequent detention in london in october 1998 following an extradition request from spain polarized chilean society .
prehistoric paintings of men , animals , human organs and numerous seashells can be seen in the tham phi hua to cave .
one of the newest areas of nepal open to trekkers is the southern part of shey-phoksundo national park .
if you are thinking of visiting the banqueting house , why not purchase a london pass which will admit you to this and many other london attractions for a single payment ; it also includes travel by public transport within the london area on buses , tubes and trains , zones 1 - 6 .
his career was marked by a large number of fine buildings , among which two of the most outstanding are the twin edifices of the porto viaduct and the garabit viaduct in the cantal region of france .
although it is not clear if the 1922 movement caused or coincided with some changes in outlook but it certainly opened broad new avenues such as the critical pursuit of quality , the search for new values , and the rejection of the old european stereotypes .
the exquisite medieval art & architecture of the kathmandu valley vividly reflect the artistic ingenuity and the religious tradition of the people .
rajasthan is a treasure-trove of temples art & architecture .
the marble mausoleum is square in plan with chamfered corners .
prince karamasi originally built the fort , the fort was originally built as a protection of the village from foreign or neighboring invasions .
inhabited by the friendly lushai tribes , this is a great escape during the summers .
little of the former glory of majapahit empire , still stands in east java to day with the exception of temple ruins and some archaeological discoveries .
queen didda was the defector ruler of the state , as she was very dominating and exercised immense influence over her husband .
in philosophy , religion , medicine , astronomy , literature , engineering , sculpture , architecture , painting , music , dancing , and in many other walks of life the progress of kashmiries during the ancient times is astonishing and striking .
the professionals come from the fields of geographic information systems , wildlife management , wildlife photography , marine biology and oceanography , national and state park management , environmental sciences , women in development , historians and archaeologists , etc .
shah jahan s cenotaph is higher and to the left it has a pen box inscribed on it , which symbolizes a male ruler .
for a breathtaking beautiful view of the taj mahal , see it by moonlight .
national museum , it houses an excellent collection of bronzes , terracotta sculptures , paintings and costumes .
this temple is located on the neel parvat that is located on the banks of the river ganga in haridwar in uttaranchal , india .
a modern reconstruction of the shorter side of the mausoleum illustrates the lavish nature of the art and architecture of the building . . . a building for a king whose name is celebrated in all large tombs today - - mausoleums .
the archaeological survey of india also has a guesthouse with spacious well furnished rooms at a very low rate .
if you are ' doing ' north india , amritsar is a city you should not miss and it 's easy to travel there from delhi by road and by rail .
what s more , there is a strong and vibrant tribal culture here .
permits are required to visit the dam. please contact public relations officer ( pro ) , water and power development authority ( wapda ) , tarbela ( tel : 0995-660562 ) or member ( power ) wapda house , shahrah-e-quaid-e-azam , lahore .
an india travel destination tour takes the tourist to this queen among the hill stations in india in himachal pradesh .
with a rich history , hyderabad boasts of some fine examples of qutub shahi architecture - the jami masjid , the mecca masjid , toli masjid and of course , the impressive symbol of hyderabad , the charminar .
your journey promises joy , serenity and a deeper understanding of one of the greatest thinkers of india .
victorian women 's rights campaigner , mrs. pankhurst was one of those once held in the cells .
in india , the popularity of polo has waned and risen many time .
aurangabad is connected to all major cities and towns by good roads .
besides the above-mentioned temples there are many other temples that are worth visiting during your temple tours to orissa in india .
the three rivers being kundala , nallathali and mudrapuza that adds to the beauty of the place to be discovered .
i remember the sunday breakfasts i had as a child at mtr , bangalore .
when in bhedaghat , pick up the pure white idols or linga , jewellary boxes and animal - shaped curios , which you will find in tiny leading down to the narmada ghat , made of soapstone , they make lovely gifts .
raising and racing thoroughbreds also became a lucrative endeavor , and the kentucky derby grew in popularity after the first race in 1875 .
a must visit , however , is the handicraft centre at the tribal cultural museum in silvassa .
watch the skittish , colorful koi carps , imported from thailand , in action as you sip a classy cocktail .
both day and night the animated local bars and restaurants are alive with people dancing to many types of music .
tipu 's palace resembles the daria daulat palace at srirangapatna , tipu 's capital .
like taimur in the punjab and delhi , dulucha carried sword and fire , destroyed towns and villages and slaughtered thousands .
north of kullu is a beautiful spot , in the midst of pinewood with high mountains towering above it .
ancient accounts such as those by strabo and pliny the elder give us a brief description of the `` tower `` and the magnificent white marble cover .
lieutenant zebulon pike of the u .s . army followed the arkansas river across the kansas area en route to colorado in 1806 .
made in rewa and indore , ice jewellary has a golden sheen created by coating tin foil with melted lac .
while the temple of jamwa mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities , its beautiful landscape , especially during in oils pools , makes it an idyllic picnic spot .
the rates are negotiable because they change frequently according to your nationality and clothes ! november to march is the best time to visit with the mercury dropping to a comfortable range between 1 c and 29 celsius .
carry your own bottles of water while traveling .
most of the tribes in arunachal pradesh tend to follow the techniques of jhumming , shifting agriculture and terrace farming in order to grow crops and survive .
the birla planetarium is also quite a crowd-puller. .
trekking and skiing in the himalayas , white water rafting on the ganges and beas , camel and jeep safaris in the deserts of rajasthan , paragliding in himachal , watersports in goa and scuba diving in lakshadweep and andaman are just some of the options available to the adventure seeking tourists .
its effect was a burst of almost ethereal clarity , of the kind only metal creates , piercing the architectural landscape of paris .
others fly in to the village of lukla to start their trek .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
due to their awesome height and spread , garhwal and kumaon , like other areas in the himalayas , offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing , round the year .
mysore is located 139 kms. to the south west of bangalore .
the quality of life and the general welfare of its inhabitants have improved considerably with the city 's fast pace of development .
the suitable period for river running depends on the adequacy of water volume .
the most loved in all of dilli haat is the food plaza where you ll find the best cuisines from 25 indian states - hot momos and fruit beer from the north-east , delicious putu and kadala from kerla , rich hydrabad biryani , succulent gujarati dhokla , mouth-watering bengali sweets , and more .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
khorat s people are involves in agricultural activities that include farming of rice and other crops such as sugar cane , tapioca , corn , jute , peanuts , sesame and fruits .
all expeditions , whether indian , foreign , or joint , are required to apply to the imf , at least six months prior to departure , so that all the formalities are completed within the time frame .
for the people who actually visited it , the answer was simple ; it was not just a temple .
climb onto the boat at diu jetty and head there to admire the lighthouse and the church dedicated to our lady of the sea .
the end of result is a plate of delectable chakem , a whole meal in itself .
one more work of wonder to be seen here is an iron pillar that still remains unrusted .
there are up state road transport ( upsrtc ) as well as private buses plying to and from agra .
dazzling shopping arcades , exciting sport activity , night clubs and discotheques , theatre and music , gourmet restaurants and interesting sightseeing - mumbai offers the visitor a heady mix of all this and more .
during your temple tours to this region you can visit temples like the aranya devi temple , durga temple , mandar hill temple , kurkihar temple , chutia temple , hariharnath temple , mundesvari temple , parasnat temple , vaisali temple and the masarah temple .
although navaratri celebrations are spectacular all over gujarat ahmedabad , vadodara , ambaji , and poshina are the some areas where celebrations are particularly grand .
good buys would include shawls and stoles of kimkhab , a fabric made by blending local silk with gold thread but since not all had the necessary purchasing power , silk was blended with cotton and made into a cheaper version called himroo .
deep fried fish ( usually sanwal ) coated with yoghurt mixed with coriander , garlic and green chillies is another must try .
the 6 km trek from kedarnath to vasukital ( 4135 m ) is a continuous ascent along a goat track , and offers a wonderful panoramic view of the chaukhamba peaks .
kumarakom enjoys a tropical climate almost round the year .
ramanagaram is also an important silk cocoon market .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to jammu and kashmir , india .
khwaja saheb is also known as sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar .
in mizoram , meat translates to pork , and you can pamper your tastebuds with a number of pork preparations .
at-sunrice is a culinary centre dedicated to promoting pan-asian cuisine , culinary skills and craft ware .
trains connect udhagamandalam indirectly to the rest of the country .
the adi granth is housed in the ground floor of the akal takht and is taken out in procession every morning to be placed at the harmandir sahib .
think of delhi and the image that spring to mind are many. a city in which the wrap and weft of history s fabric are beautifully meshed .
the misty dawn on mountains creating magnificent landscapes extend to the entire north-eastern states whose natural beauty has earned them the sobriquet of 'seven sisters ' covering assam , nagaland , arunachal pradesh , manipur , tripura , mizoram and meghalaya .
lalitaditya was equally a great builder and he built his capital near the sacred shrine of khir-bhawani , and gave it the name of parihaspur ( city of pleasure .
according to popular legend , sage markandey stayed here and this sacred place was visited by the hindu deity lord shiva in the disguise of a tiger .
chonnabot is noted for its quality silks ; every december the city hosts a silk fair , when all the best materials are on sale .
the entertainment scene livens up during the urs with evenings of sufi music , qawwalis and poetry reading sessions or at the time of the pushkar fair with folk dance and music shows .
there s all this and much more .
they will also know what you mean when you say dbc , the popular acronym for death by chocolate , which is probably the flagship dessert at the corner house .
major game fishing contests are run according to the rules of the international game fishing association which mandates a catch and release requirement for sharks , underweight fish , and billfish such as marlin and sailfish .
the other fascinating and important shrine located inside the chidambaram nataraja temple is the govindaraja perumaal .
you ll be spoilt for choice by the sheer variety of kebabs-seekh , kathi , reshmi , gola , shaami and kalmi .
canoa quebrada is approximately 100 miles from fortaleza , one of the fastest growing tourism destinations in the country , and a true gem of the northeast .
the constant variations of the regular fish curry are also recommended .
science city has space theatre .
the sunset and sunrise are breathtaking every single day ! diving , snorkeling and other water sports will add that extra zing to your holiday .
kalamkari deriving it s name from kalam ( pen ) and kari ( work ) , stands for the busy patterns on the cloth painted with colors made from seeds , flower and even cowdung ! the theme could be anything from ramayana , the mahabharata to anything around trees , birds and animals .
he documented a wealth of information and gave an accurate description of the structure which helped modern archeologists reconstruct the monument .
balsamand lake & palace is an artificial lake is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 ad .
the purpose , primarily , is to dine like a king .
people of ubon ratchathani are religious and still abide by tradition and culture .
the best season for river rafting is from april to september .
brazil 's popular music developed parallel to its classical music and it also united traditional european instruments - guitar , piano , and flute - with a whole rhythm section of sounds produced by frying pans , small barrels with a membrane and a stick inside ( cuicas ) that make wheezing sounds , and tambourines .
with his honor and dignity severely compromised , he withdrew from business .
the town has an airstrip and tele-communication facilities .
this ancient temple was constructed almost a thousand years ago though historians are not very clear about the exact age of this ancient temple .
at adinarayan bhojanalaya it is preferable to ask waiter s recommendation instead of diving into the menu .
it is the best option in this town , with great food and well appointed rooms .
itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical ita fort , and other tourist attractions here would be gyaker sinyi or the ganga lake .
most of the international airlines , indian airlines , & many other private airline touch mumbai & connect mumbai with the major cities of india and abroad .
fly into teresina , the capital of the state of piaui , and from there to parnaiba the drive is 220 miles , followed by a 4 hour boat ride to caju island .
another important pilgrimage in the region is the dhanuskodi that is located in rameshwaram .
the best months for water sports are october and march .
sibsagar city 's attractions include temples of shivdol , vishnudol and devidol , rang ghar talatol ghar , joysagar-the biggest man-made lake and ahom museum .
there are many old temples to visit besides enjoying the picturesque environs .
the tanjore paintings have , over the centuries , remained traditional , featuring gods , and goddesses , and religious themes , in a subtle composition and stunning blend of colors .
after the eclipse of utpala dynasty , lohara dynasty ruled kashmir till the end of the hindu rule in kashmir ( 1339 ) .
the mahaparinirvana temple is one place that you must visit during your tours to historical places in kushinagar , bihar , india .
european voyages of discovery began when columbus discovered the islands of the `` new world `` in 1492 .
many dakota did not join in , but the fighting lasted six weeks and many people on both sides were killed or fled minnesota .
the big chill s range of soups , salads , pastas and tempting desserts is sure to satisy all cravings , especially those involving melting cheese .
there are eight vehicular ways and two footpaths on this bridge on the river hooghly .
and when alexander the great conquered asia minor , he offered to rebuild the destroyed temple , but the temple was not restored until after his death in 323 bc .
in 1825 , some of them returned to re-establish a town and established a rice farming community .
if you can stand the rajasthan heat of may-june then save your trip for this festival when thousands from across india arrive at ajmer on pilgrimage during this auspicious period .
select from beautifully crafted mats that area made with traditional materials and have tribal motifs ideal gift for people back home .
`` pietra dura `` the inlay works on marble so characteristic of the taj was first used .
assam is perhaps best known for two things : tea and the one-horned rhinoceros , which is found in large numbers at kaziranga national park .
green mensions : this three bedroom unassuming eco-lodge is situated right in the middle of the periyar tiger reserve .
rohtang pass , also in the near vicinity of this beautiful hill station in india , which a guided tour to shimla would reveal , is posited at a height of 3980 meters above sea level .
keep in mind that the last bus back from aihole leaves around 430 pm and the last buses from pattadakal are at about 6 pm you could alternatively hire a cab for the trip .
in case a party is not in a position to accommodate a l.o./m/g. in the premises , a l.o./m.g. shall stay in a transit camp / hotel or any other suitable place and charge a party $ 10 / - per day for accommodation and $ 10 / - per day for food .
it is a matter of pride that this 2000-year-old art of weaving continues , with families passing on their creative skills to younger generations .
close contenders are the many varieties of avakkai ( mango ) tamarind and the red hot chillipickle ( that makes even the natives break out in sweet .
gmvn has developed a water sports resort at asan barrage .
in 1871 a fire started in the cow barn at the rear of the patrick o'leary cottage at 137 dekoven street on chicago 's west side .
in mysore , head to devaraj urs , ashok road and sayyaji road , for a range of choices while in bangalore deepam silk international are good options for buying some mysore silk saris .
slip your feet in chatai chappals and chill out at the rooftop pool with a book , or take a swim , to give your tired conscience a rest .
it is a three and half day 's trek from jumla to rara national park .
they were mainly from the eastern united states , canada , and northern europe .
guru arjan dev laid the foundations of the city of ramdaspur in 1588 and the temple complex was completed in 1601 .
nearby places to visit would be magnolia point , upper ghagri water falls , lower ghagri water falls , koel view point , lodh falls , sadni falls , betla national park , dhanbad , topchanchi lake , jharia , sindri , maithon dam , panchet dam , bokaro , jamshedpur , dolwa hill top .
india as a naturally endowed country is rich in natural beauty .
this mango tree restaurant is just 15 minutes away from hampi bazaar .
green valley in arunachal wide sweeping valleys and deep gorges give way to thick deciduous forests and alpine meadows , undulating tea gardens and somber slopes , bar narrow terraces , looking like gigantic staircases flung down the mountains , gently contoured hills and imposing , snow draped peaks surrounded by a fluff of clouds look down upon thundering rivers and deeply fissured glaciers .
when europeans first visited the region , the wichita and other relatively sedentary indian tribes inhabited the east .
the tribal food available in villages is varied , with an interesting variety of vegetables , wild mushrooms bamoo shoots , rotis made from various flours , fresh water crabs usuallu caught during the full moon , and river fish like rohu and carp .
shimla as one of the most popular hill stations in india is also home to two churches of the order of christ church and the neo gothic tudor library building .
they are the mecca of river rafting in india and this sport is another facet of adventure tourism in india which surely is tourism with a differences going by the existence of so many rapids and deadly inclines in the river courses .
a rich choice of indian and continental fare is on offer but you go for the maratha dishes difficult to get elsewhere , expect in gwalior homes .
at zafraan laguna we , however , recommend the mouthwatering new zealand nrwegian smoked salmon , the classic maratini , the fantastic collection of vodka and the simple yet irresistible gelato , an italian frozen dessert .
if you are looking for above-average lodging facilities , hotel saramati three-star hotel in dimapur is a very good bet .
these are the ajmer sharif , anasagar lake , dargah of miran syed husain , jama al-tamish and the taragarh fort .
pioneer hotel s polo bar is on of the silvassa s most popular upmarket watering holes , and known for its indian seafood dishes .
around the corner is bharat bhawan , bhopal s cultural centre for performing arts and tribal craft where you can catch a show in the evening .
the old portuguese church and warehouse have been rehabilitated into living museums. the old supreme court building is now a museum of fine arts , which also houses part of the excellent chinese porcelain collection of former vice president adam malik .
the gala reminds us of the eternal scuffle between good and evil which is portrayed by a stimulated colorful battle between the inhabitants of malana and archhandi village .
the advantage of diving from ao nang is the nearby sites in the poda island group , where water visibility is better than that of the mainland , but not as good as phi phi .
according to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the hindu deity lord shiva was meditating when his consort uma 's cry shook him out of his meditation .
tranquil plantation hideaway : carved out of coffee woods , it s a show stealer from where you may not want to step out , through the lush wayanad rainforest beackons seductively .
you should not let your credit card out of sight , and avoid having goods shipped later , since many people have been cheated on them you will not be able to resist the marble inlay work and other local handicrafts .
there are displays of archaeological finds from the katyur and chand periods .
unlike other mughal tombs , the garden of the taj mahal has been laid out entirely in front of the tomb and does not play any part in the ' background ' .
with vast pillared corridors and stately halls , carved ceilings , intricate mosaics , carving in ivory , stone and wood , life like paintings , antique royal weapons , maharaja s place is a must in every visitor s itinerary .
for centuries , pattaya was a small fishing village almost cut off from the outside world .
you can also look forward to the excellent meals served in the garden gourmet cuisine fit for a maharaja and breakfast served on the ramparts of the fort .
wrote one european art critic : `` ancient india has nothing more worthy of its civilization , than the grand remains in kashmir , the massive , the grotesque the elegant in architecture , may be admired in many parts of india , but now here is to be seen , the counterparts of the classically graceful , yet symmetrically massive edifices of kashmir , and in beauty , and position are immensely superior .
the city of london is a strange place .
visa exemptions include bhutanese and nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months , nationals from the maldives , if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days ( this includes any periods they may have spent in india up to 6 months prior to the visit in question ) , transit passengers who have a follow on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
tour to mandi kinnaur is a land of rich green valley , ripe orchards , vineyards , snow-covered peaks and cold desert mountains .
in taj mahal trees were planted carefully in accordance with the symmetry of the overall plan .
badami saw a succession of rulers of which the chalukyas were only the most important .
when we look at chiang mai today , it is the economic , cultural and communications hub of northern thailand complete with excellent infrastructure , good roads , by passes and road tunnels , and reliable communications infrastructure .
the surya pahar temple is located in goalpara in assam , india .
of all the notable mountains in china , mount huangshan , to be found in the south of anhui province , is probably the most famous .
drop in at the bar to sample the authentic local brew and have your fill of sikkimese delicacies at the restaurant .
the walls are jam packed with posters and pop arts , complementing the lovely art dark wood everywhere .
the best preserved of these stone temples are at martand and avantipur .
of the many popular malls of gurgaon , gold souk , which opened last year , stand out for its single minded dedication to metallic indulgence .
kasuti derives it s geometric from various temple sculptures , and has for themes animals , birds , gods and goddesses .
given north india s obsession with weddings , clothe and jewellery , delhi is where your trousseau shopping should begin and end .
originally there were two separate towns - - waltair and vishakapatnam , however , due to rapid development the two have virtually merged .
accommodation at the top end hotels can be expensive but food is cheap .
there s is plenty more to wax eloquent about the poovar island resort including the hotel s environmental concerns but suffice to say it s as close to heaven on earth as you likely to get on a holiday .
disputes for control of oregon between american settlers and the hudson bay company were finally resolved in the 1846 oregon treaty , in which great britain gave up claims to the region .
chakhna is a lunch time special made of goat intestines and leftover meat portions , eaten with kulchas .
in the late 1940 's the modern art museum was founded in rio de janeiro and sao paulo got two museums - the art museum of sao paulo founded by assis chateaubriand and the museum of modern art .
singapore zoo , tired of having the usual breakfast ? then feast with an orang utan , the oriental small-clawed otter , or even the reticulated python .
coriander leaf cooking studio is located at 3a merchant court , # 02-12 river valley road , clarke quay .
indian airlines connect guwahati with calcutta , delhi , bagdogra , imphal , agartala , dibrugarh .
the grounds are surrounded by high building walls on all sides , except a narrow access lane .
the asiatic society started a public museum in 1814 .
insurance cover , shall be provided by the trekking party through a pakistani company and the tourism division shall help a party in getting this facility in pakistan , if so requested .
camel safaris provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional indian life in the desert , with all the hardships , the beauty and the desolation .
the london coliseum is also just down the road on st .
mehrangarh fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city .
death to mass-production ! every khasi lock is hand-smithed , with each key specific to its own lock , and are famous for their unique locking mechanism .
ubon ratchathani province is renowned for its strong buddhist tradition , particularly the practice of forest-dwelling monks and the ancient buddhist temples , which can still be seen throughout the province today .
a plethora of holiday camping options are available in the himalayan belt , where soft adventure tourism is packaged with holiday camping to create an acceptable eco-tourism product .
centennial state , colorado was named from the spanish ' red ' or ' ruddy . ' the name was first applied to the colorado river , which was apparently carrying reddish silt .
the legacy of that past survives in the many monuments left behind by the regents , each a chronicle of the glory of its time and an imprint of the character of the ruler .
if you miss the early morning or evening processions , the palanquin that bears the adi granth can be seen in the treasury room on the first floor of the akal takht .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
about 200 km from shimla strikingly beautiful district of kinnaur where the the river satluj carved deep gorges through the high mountains .
thenzawl is a picturesque hill station and also worth a visit .
tipu 's palace was known as `rashk-e-jannat ' - the envy of heaven .
we would wake up as early as 6 a.m. and make it to mtr for rava idli , badam milk and the special fruit salad .
it was said that a million workers including one hundred thousand artisans were driven into the long-term hard labor .
accommodation is available at a local guesthouse but hardly anyone stays over at aihole .
inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of mumtaz mahal and shah jahan .
than bok khorani national park covers an area of 37.5 rai of land in tambon ao leuk tai .
river rafting in india can also be referred to by a new and trendier nomenclature of river running which is what both the seasoned and neophyte river runners do in the killing and labyrinthine rapids of the ganges and bhagirathi .
we have no monuments or heritage buildings to boast of , but the state s scenic beauty is unparalleled .
while on temple tours to bihar in india you get an opportunity to discover the glorious religious heritage and past of india .
bargain even as you watch the weavers at their looms , some of the bright reds , greens and black tends to run , also check by rubbing a tissue or white cloth on the silk .
the pagoda like tazia tower rises from the badal mahal ( palace of clouds ) , each storey of this five-tiered tower has a beautifully carved balcony .
hotels have restaurants attached to them and primarily serve indian food .
the central market building in paris , les halles , was erected in 1853 by victor baltard and felix callet .
also the museum inside the mehrangarh fort has a rich collection of miniatures , musical instruments , costumes , armoury etc .
they include ceramic ware , tibetan revolving wheels or the thangkas , carved walking sticks and the ladhaki shawls .
so enthralling and unique are the historical structures here , more than 114 of them in all , that they have recently been consecrated as the champaner-pavagarh archeological park , and deemed a world heritage site by the unesco .
thalang town was surrounded by burmese troops who invaded the coastal area in 1785 .
by 1836 , the arkansas territory had the 60 , 000 residents required to become a state , and after writing an acceptable constitution , was declared the 25th state in the united states .
java language with various dialects is the daily language used by most of central java people but bahasa indonesia as mother tongue .
comprising more than 300 ethnic groups speaking 200 different languages , the indonesia population exhibits marked diversity in its linguistic , culture , and religious traditions .
multinational banks have a few branches in ahmedabad ; both they and indian banks offer atm facilities so any time money is yours for the asking .
by secret treaty in 1802 , spain ceded the louisiana territory back to france .
the buildings are connected by a maze of raised multi-level walkways .
meng rai himself was very religious and founded many of the city 's temples , which are still important today .
the bridge and the surrounding area get their name from an order of dominican monks who had a monastery here .
chandani chowk , where mouthwatering food overflows into the streets , as aromas and flavours infuse the crammed galis .
other popular california tourist attractions include disneyland , sea world , the san diego zoo and other theme parks , san francisco , tijuana ( just across the mexican border from san diego ) , and california 's spectacular national parks and miles of beautiful beaches .
choose from jungle retreats and heritage hotels in forts and palaces , or just opt for a tiny guesthouse in the back of beyond .
as the eastern lands were settled , more indians moved to sparsely inhabited arkansas .
drive to the delightful khanvel forest rest house , a tastefully constructed complex with attractive brick cottages .
you can also equip yourself with mountaineering or trekking gear from the specialty stores in town .
many of the palaces inside the fort were later added by next generations of mughal emperors like jahangir and shahjahan .
shop for everything from exquisite jewellary to the most cutting edge technology for your home to health and beauty products to keep looking young .
the royal chitwan national park , established in 1973 , provides a great wildlife experience with its rich flora and fauna .
one of the most important types of music used by the negro slaves was the comic song-dance called lundu .
by road you can easily drive in as aurangabad is well connected by road to the towns and cities around it .
on the banks of the river mandakini , and centre of ritual activity , this ram ghat is the most frequented in chitrakoot .
safari as a term in english language refers to a long journey , an odyssey with the distance to be traveled to be through a wilderness in order to give the goose bumps to the wary traveler , which is a unique aspect of adventure tourism in india .
in the past , chiang mai was only accessible by river and elephants .
on the way to the chamundeswari temple , there is a monolithic statue of nandi bull and a mortar statue of mahishasura .
its middle reaches ends at taohuayu in zhengzhou city , henan province and here the yellow river splits the loess plateau in half , forming the longest continuous gorge in the whole drainage area of the river .
ooty is used to be popular summer and weekend getaway for the britishers during the colonial days .
the khasis , jantias and garos are the main tribes of meghalaya and each hs its own culture , language , customs and festivals .
places to see in ajmer at the foot of a barren hill , is situated india 's most important pilgrimage centre for people from all faith .
marble arch was marooned in the middle of this roundabout in the mid 19th century .
daman delight is also known for its stuffed pomfret and you must also try the dara fish , a local delicacy that tastes great when cooked in a fiery curry .
all the houseboats in srinagar are marked by personalized service , usually from the owner and his family .
in 1755 the french-speaking people of acadia , most of which is now part of the canadian province of nova scotia , were ousted from their homes by the british and some of them came to louisiana beginning in the 1760s .
the rate of exchange of the foreign currencies are determined by the nepal rastra bank and are announced in the press daily also the bank receipts are required for re-exchanging of currency note that nepal currency is not applicable in india .
thalang town was under the leadership of chan , the widow of the governor , and her sister , muk , who united local residents and successfully fought and drove the invaders out of phuket .
a year later , a peace treaty was signed and ecuador 's boundaries were permanently established .
one can not claim to be indian and not have heard of sambalpur saris ; and returning from orissa without one in your bag is like coming away from agra without seeing taj .
belgravia is , on the whole , fairly quiet and not the sort of place you 'd undertake a raucous pub crawl but is a delight to stroll around on a sunny afternoon .
the main north entrance is under a victorian clock tower .
the ooty lake , this artificial lake was constructed by john sullivan , the first collector of ooty .
the fare is pretty regular but no one bakes such crisp and melts in - the-mouth cookies as karachi bakery .
the mall houses a wide range of international and indian designer jewellery and watch brands-from kitschy to crazy , from ethnic to contemporary .
nestled amid the lush greenery of wessex estate off portsdown road , palate sensations aims to offer unique and all-encompassing holistic classes and workshops that are not just cuisine-based. .
paper handmade from tree bark is a speciality here .
do n't expect to see the queen 's private apartments , garden or swimming pool , and you certainly wo n't meet her majesty .
the most celebrated temples of osian are the surya or sun temple and the sachiya mata temple .
go anywhere in meghalaya and you will find the humble bamboo turned into various things-from beer mugs to water jugs , spoons to trays to pen stands. haggle a little , but do buy .
the second floor of hotel is done up in country style , with pine furniture , wooden floors and cosy patchwork quilts .
the clock 's four dials each have a diameter of 23ft , the minute hands are 14ft long and the numerals on each face are nearly 2ft high .
king meng rai founded the city as the capital of the lanna ( a million rice fields ) kingdom on thursday , 12th april 1296 during the same period of time as the establishment of the sukhothai kingdom .
peacock feathers would wound with bamboo and vividly colored glass beads to make gorgeous necklaces , iron twisted into chulky bracelets embellished with stylized figures , waist belts made of cowrie shells and so much more .
homestay is the ultimate way to experience the naga way of life , i recommend it highly .
hazaribagh has an excellent climate with beautiful sceneries all around it in the midst of dense forest and it is rich in flora and fauna .
8 kms from almora is the hilltop shrine of ( goddess durga ) , where swami vivekananda sat in meditation .
a short walk north of the dargah brings you to the oldest surviving monument of ajmers muslim rule , the remarkable adhai din ka jhonpara .
nehari is a ramzan special and makes rare appearance the rest of the year , however , if you time it well , you can grab a plate at the restaurants around hyderabad s nampally station .
sandalwood carving : these delicately scented pieces of art probably among the most popular souvenirs to take home from a trip of karnataka .
indian houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and traveling industry .
buses or taxis available outside the jaipur airport can be hired for the drive to ajmer .
fatehpur sikri is richly decorated structure is a quaint mixture of styles .
although tennessee joined the confederacy during the civil war , there was much pro-union sentiment in the state , which was the scene of extensive military action .
the peach state , goober state , cracker state , georgia was named by james oglethorpe for king george ii .
although the lighthouse of alexandria did not survive to the present day , it left its influence in various respects .
the nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn , attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty .
continuous innovations ensure that there is always something new and exciting to look forward in terms of both design and material , at ganjam .
amidst towering snow-clad peaks with heights varying from 1000 m to over 8000 meter , the valleys of gilgit , hunza and skardu recall shangri-la. .
honeymoon in ladakh can be a mesmerizing experience with all the attendant cymbals , drums and the traditional musical instruments to serve as a backdrop to ladakh as an idyllic honeymoon destination in india for the honeymooners in india .
kalimpong produces 80 % of india s gladioli and is a significant orchid-growing area and it comes as no surprise that flowers are exported from here to many cities in northern india .
$ 45 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
agra fort is located on the banks of the yamuna near the railway station .
there are also some camp sites and paying guest accommodations available .
the climate of aurangabad is temperate with moderate winters in the months of november-february and hot summers from april through to june .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , is well resourced enough to undertake tours to chithirapuram as a lesser known but worth-a-visit hill station in india .
pal and swaran dhaba top the list for some great non vegetarian fare , especially the mutton apart from standard dhaba dishes such as dal makhni .
skand and some other puranas rank ayodhya as one of the seven most sacred cities of india .
all in all , bangalore is a lovely city to visit .
there are two temples on either side of the main palace , dedicated to lord krishna and lord shiva .
taj mahal for short , this popular mangalore restaurant has two branches , be careful it s probably a sin to not finish off every meal with the taj mahal special coffee .
the strategic location of malam jabba makes it convenient for tourists to access other tourist destinations such as : mingora ( the white palace , museum and orchard farms ) . kabal ( golf course ) miandam ( for its scenic beauty & surrounding peaks ) kalam ( for trout fishing .
let your senses sway to the romance of the surroundings as you pass forts , palaces , historical landmarks and villages .
sprawling on the banks of the river yamuna , delhi , bahai temple the capital of india , typifies the soul of the country .
over the centuries amritsar has witnessed a bloody struggle for survival .
visit goa and experience firsthand how life should really be lived .
drass , 60 km west of kargil on the way to srinagar , is the second coldest place in the world , but the summers here are beautiful .
every spring the stones of khajuraho come to life during the prestigious 7-day khajuraho dance festival when the glory of the temples is celebrated with true fervour and joy .
the island groups of surin and similan are renowned for their beautiful unspoilt beaches and spectacular underwater scenery , attracting divers from around the world .
honeymoon in khajuraho is a treat to be ravished when it comes to the door of the newly weds .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it .
father jacques marquette , french-born missionary of the jesuit order , and louis jolliet , canadian explorer and mapmaker , were the first europeans to view the land on which the city of chicago was to stand in 1673 .
when phuket was elevated to a town in 1850 , it attracted more immigrants from thalang and nearby communities .
the musi river passing through the middle of hyderabad city flows in an easterly direction .
the beauty of the mausoleum is not only in the structure itself , but in the decorations and statues that adorned the outside at different levels on the podium and the roof .
it is an unusually large fortress and is surrounded by huge , imposing grey , granite walls and has a central , slender pink minaret called the chandminar - a victory tower built in 1435 and is right on top of the hill , originally known as devagiri or the hill of the gods .
these andaman and nicobar islands shimmer like emeralds in the bay of bengal .
as most hotels have promotional rates available from time to time , we recommend that you check directly with the hotel before making any reservations .
there is no evidence that a statue of the goddess herself was placed at the center of the sanctuary , but there is no reason not to believe so .
motorists are required to produce valid road tax discs and insurance certificates for their cars when purchasing the autopass card .
kumarakom lake resort is an island of peace and fanciful luxury .
the rani sipri masjid is a small , exquisitely designed mosque , while the rani rupmati mosque named after the sultans hindu wife , has a dome that is slightly raised to permit light to come in around its base .
for exquisitely crafted hand printed blue and white ceramic tiles called azulejos , head to the velha goa galleria in panjim s fountainhas area - it s the next best thing to buying them in portugal .
much of the state 's population is descended from european immigrants who came to nebraska in the late 19th century .
an amusement park with cable car is being developed to attract more and more tourists in palampur .
a rock portion projecting outwards like a roof at nearly 180 * is called a roof .
backround s shades are subtly reflected on the white marble surface of the taj mahal , which changes its color and complexion accordingly .
the city is full of architectural delights .
follow it up with some crisp beef chill fry .
the cave temples and monasteries at ellora , excavated out of the vertical face of an escarpment are 26 kms north of aurangabad .
the enveloping atmosphere with its subtle harmonies of light and shade , fragrance and exhales the paradise , visionary splendors , and the music of the birds that defies definition would develop creative and constructive feelings in the hearts of those people who come here to enjoy the beauty of nature .
jakarta is a city of contrasts ; the traditional and the modern , the rich and the poor , the sacral and the worldly , often stand side by side in this bustling metropolis .
plenty of hired transport is easily available , be it cars , jeeps , minibuses or muvs and almost all come with experienced drivers .
it featured in the film four weddings and a funeral as the spot of hugh grant 's ill-fated marriage ceremony .
mysore also celebrates the national festivals of independence day , the republic day and the birthday of gandhiji .
during the 1890s , there were several thousand japanese laborers constructing the railroad through idaho .
the internal core was used as a shaft to lift the fuel needed for the fire .
changing money in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
inlaid furniture and carvings are also available in plenty , especially in the shimoga , uttara kannada and mysore districts .
the devastating earthquake that wreaked havoc across gujarat on the 26 th of january 2001 destroyed a large proportion of the monuments and residential buildings in many parts of the ahmedabad , while others suffered major structural damage .
one of hyderabad 's prime attractions is the salar jung museum , the world 's largest collection by a single individual , sir yusaf ali salar jung iii .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , opens up new vistas in the sphere of adventure tourism in india through its latest addition in the form of motorcycle safari in india .
welcome to the zafraan laguna , the restaurant as exotic as its name .
himachal is one of the oldest , most well estanlished and recognized tourist destinations in the country .
it is not exaggerating to say that yellow river is a melting port , because there are more than 30 branches and countless streams feeding it through its course .
because of their height and spread , garwhal and kumaon , like other sectors of the himalayas , are in a position to offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing the year .
but strangely enough , harsha 's career became a record of follies and misdeeds .
in 1682 , at the mouth of the mississippi , lasalle claimed the mississippi valley for france , but was later assassinated by two of his companions .
the people with typical costumes , folk dances , music and sports like polo and buzkashi provide the traveler an unforgettable experience .
a few minutes uphill from gangtok s main market .
cie , opposite the taj hotel in varanasi , has a wonderful collection of silk , brocades and handicrafts .
the tourist office will be able to assist those travelers looking for paying guest accommodation with local families .
the himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world .
although shimla is a city teeming with restaurants , there isn t anything quite like the restaurant at the oberoi cecil .
the weather is very pleasant and though a far cry from the misty himalayan hill-stations , nandi hills has a very pleasant ambience about it a nice place to chill out in if you are in the vicinity .
boat departs from downtown krabi to ko lanta yai daily ; the journey takes 2.5 hours .
the ambience is rustic , in keeping with the ruggedness of the terrain after which the restaurant is named , and the food is served straight off the fire , without fancy garnishes .
the city being an important cantonment during the british raj has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture .
try a slice of britto s dark chocolate cake to end your meal on a mellow note .
during the british period political leaders considered dangerous to the interests of the raj and other dreaded criminals were deported from mainland to the cellular jail the indian bastille , situated on the sea coast of atlanta point in the north eastern part of port blair .
after the mutiny of 1857 , the british shifted the headquarters of the northwestern provinces to allahabad .
the exposure is furthered by the arrangements of india travel destinations , the tour guide with its tours to nainital .
she built many temples and monasteries and one of these was reserved for people of madyadesha and lata ( u . p . , bihar and central india .
with cricketing memorabilla strewn al over the place , the kaptain s retreat one will be of special interest to those who love the game and will have the chance to sleep in rooms named after kapil dev s individual cricketing achievements such as 432 ( his test wickets ) and four sixes ( the reason for his one , you should ask english cricketer eddie hemmings .
the new year is celebrated more enthusiastically in bangalore than any other festival .
the corridors , arches and man daps at the vimal vashi temple are richly and intricately carved .
the royal edifices take you to the magnificence of the bygone era .
taj mahal architecture has an impressive watercourse , which neatly divides the garden into four equal parts and heightens the flawless symmetry of the entire complex .
ana sagar : on its bank is a beautiful park , the daulat bagh featuring a series of marble pavilions built in 1637 by shah jahan .
there are some lovely georgian houses and historic churches sandwiched between old warehouses , many of which have been turned into flats .
stark , black and ingeniously crafted into unlikely shapes , the world-famous wrought iron artifacts of bastar possess a strange , primitive beauty that you will never see elsewhere .
choice of accommodation in fatehpur sikri is limited .
nearest underground stations : canary wharf and canary wharf dlr .
make no mistake about it , with its ease of access , waterfront location and sense of history greenwich is the place that no self-respecting visitor can afford to miss .
the british established many hill stations in this region to protect themselves from the extreme heat and dust of the northern plains in the summer .
jama masjid was built as the mosque of shahjahan 's capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in india .
opened only recently to foreign tourists , the resort with its simple but attractive housing , have already become a circled spot in the brochures of tour operators all over .
you can also treat yourself to an impressive afternoon tea , accompanied by a string quartet or pianist .
eco-tourism focuses on local cultures , wilderness adventures , volunteering , personal growth and learning new ways to live on our vulnerable planet .
this was the biggest contract in his entire career in business , and also the one with the greatest risk .
oklahoma 's indians were generally left in peace by whites until the civil war .
when the british evacuated florida , spanish colonists as well as settlers from the newly formed united states came pouring in .
on the western side is the imposing white domed general post office , next to which is the reserve bank of india building .
by this method the icon is first made in wax , then three layers of clay are applied on the wax model , and it is allowed to dry .
during the years that followed , the dakota and anishinabe tribes were forced to sign treaties to relinquish most of minnesota to the u .s . government .
the temperature of west sumatra province has ranges between 22o c and 32o c , and the rainfall is 2 , 289 mm per year .
many of these shrines have now been converted into a martyr s gallery showing the gruesome history of the sikhs .
as the sun shifts , the temple presents myriad views , each magnificent and captivating .
in june 1984 , hounded by the army and police , a heavily armed bhindranwale and his followers holed up in the golden temple complex .
muhammad bin qasim ( 711 ad ) and mehmood ghaznavi ( 11th century ad ) also invaded balochistan resulting in the development of muslim character .
named after the mirrors that cover every wall , the hotel has eight rooms go in for one of the luxurious royal suits , with their antique furniture and massive marble bathrooms .
the city is lined up with shops that have everything you need to stock up your kitchen shelves with .
dolpo lies between dhorpatan and rara and two of those treks could be combined into a single tour from pokhara to jumla .
a spacious dining hall lined with tables and busy waiters spooning out samber , buttermilk and chutneys to grab-a-bite office goers and shoppers abhiruchi is a no - frills restaurant .
the azure waters of karan , tilyar and damdama lakes augment the lush topography .
today the banqueting house is a popular visitor attraction and one of the finest banqueting venues in london , playing host to many royal and society occasions .
here you will find the very heart of london : the original settlement from which the rest of london has sprawled .
fountains , terraces , lotus pools , rose gardens and a deer park surround the magnificent glass house built in 1840 , on the lines of london 's crystal palace .
two flag staffs joined in the middle with the emblem of guru hargobind symbolize the dual aspects of sikhism religion and politics .
mysore is again connected with many trains to bangalore and also the prestigious luxury train , shatabdi express connects it to madras .
waterfalls thrive in the state , fed continually by the formidable monsoons .
household items made from bell metal are popular in mangalore and nagamangala , near mysore , is known for its bronze casting .
most business travelers find doing business in uttaranchal an exercise in frustration as the bureaucratic red tape slows things down , and the labor base is sluggish and unprofessional .
echo tourism is also an exciting physical challenge providing an aerobic workout and tones and develops your arms , shoulders and chest .
chug fa , shimla , this chinese restaurant is very popular with those on a shoestring budget .
as a perfect stopover sheltering traders from monsoons , jung ceylon welcomed merchants from india , persia , arabia , burma , china and also siam .
bupati ( regent ) and municipalities head the regency by walikota ( mayor ) .
visitors need permission to visit the fort , patalpuri temple , ashoka pillar and akshayavat from commandant , ordinance depot , and fort .
in the spring and autumn period ( 770 - 476 bc ) , zhouzhuang was a part of the fief yaocheng and called zhenfengli .
the state weaving centre has lovely paithani wall pieces as well .
woven for purposes such as fishing , catching birds , storing grain and filtering liquor .
by 1818 , ajmer had come under the influence of the british who left their legacy in the form of some excellent academic institutions like the king george military school and the prestigious mayo college , a public school for the young rajput princes .
kashmir s superlative feasts , the wazawan with its silken , curd-rich gravies .
dalhousie is at a distance of 80 km from pathankot .
however benbanca , is easily available at most goan , bakeries and a fairly decent version of it sells under the costa s brand .
most impressing is eco friendliness of the ut as a tourist destination there are dustbins everywhere , jute bags and recyclable paper bags are used in abundance , and there are restrooms at most tourist places , like a remarkably well kept block at the salmatia sanctuary .
in sambalpur , artisans not only offer you sarees but also loose fabric , bedspreads , tablecloths and more .
the spanish colonization was highly authoritarian and subject to all the inefficiencies of centralized planning .
don t miss out on buh-chhior , a kind of mizo biryani ( more like khichadi actually .
foreign currencies must be exchanged only through the banks or authorized foreign exchange .
navigator pedro alvares cabral founded the first european settlement on indian soil at cochin in 1500 .
from the days of civilization allahabd has been seat of learning , wisdom and writing .
clarke quay is singapore 's only riverside festival village combining dining , shopping and entertainment .
situated midway between india and burma , in the bay of bangal , the andaman and nicobar islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization .
there is a beauty everywhere you look in maghalaya .
the fort is worth seeing for its elaborate and superb multi level defenses , as well as the excellent views of the surrounding countryside from the top .
both the princes met the fate of harsha and when our great historian kalhan completed his ' rajatarangini ' in 1149 - 50 king jaisimha , the last great ruler of the hindu times was ruling the state .
finally , a part of the great mughal empire , emperor akbar accorded it the status of a province in 1556 , and used it as the headquarters for his campaigns in rajasthan .
if you are in orissa between november and december , the bali yatra , a big fair held on the banks of the mahanadi at cuttack , is worth a dekko .
surrounding by mango groves and rice fields are about a dozen attractive red-roofed cottage , each with a balcony where you can spend peaceful moments savouring the picturesque view .
a memorial tower stands within the park .
. an international airport and seaport connect cochin to the rest of the world .
great builder that he was , the emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty .
the inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated .
the menu at windsor pub is primarily coastal , with limited but skillfully made continental dishes .
with the louisiana purchase of 1803 the northwestern half of north dakota became part of the united states .
of the six vanished wonders , the lighthouse of alexandria was the last to disappear .
in 305 bc , the antigonids of macedonia who were also rivals of the ptolemies , besieged rhodes in an attempt to break the rhodo-egyptian alliance .
the main shopping areas in varanasi for these fabrics and saris are chowk , vishwanath gali , lahurabir , godoulia , dashwamedh gali and golghar .
bank holidays vary from region to region .
the historic town of bithoor , once famous by the name of bavan ghaton ki nagri , ( city of 52 ghats ) today left with only 29 ghats .
the shimla ice skating rink has the largest open-air area with naturally frozen ice in this part of the world .
the viewpoint from where john smith first glimpsed the caves provides a magnificent sight of the u-shaped gorge and its scenic surroundings .
once here , head to the colorful churi bazaar first - shimmering with the colorful glass , metal and the must-buy stone studded lac bangles .
home to pandit motilal nehru , one of the most important leaders of the movement , allahabad hosted the first indian national congress in 1885 .
buses to nearby pattadakal and aihole are frequent .
all this will be covered by a tour to shimla undertaken by india travel destinations as the most primary hill station in india .
india has something for everyone looking for adventure .
he introduced new fashions in dress and ornaments .
a picturesque world of backwaters , thatched houseboats , cormorants , chinese fishing nets and swaying palms - an ideal getaway .
stop here for handicrafts in emporia like meghaloom , khadi emporium and tantuja , or pick up tibetan wares at glory s plaza .
in the mid-1800s , as with other western states , most early idaho settlers fled the east to escape what they saw as officially sanctioned harassment of individuals for their beliefs .
built by the portuguese in around the 16th century , this roman catholic church is famous for the beautiful paintings on its ceiling .
the customer friendly fashion store in hyderabad , elahe is housed in a bungalow , which has been converted to suit the requirements of an outlet .
you could also walk to taplejung from basantapur which takes about three days .
geographically , it is closer to the temple of artemis .
ooty also known as udagamandalam is the queen of hill stations and the capital of nilgiris district .
popular regional music in brazil includes the forro from the northeast where the accordion and the flute join guitars and percussion in a foot-stomping country dance ; the frevo , also from the northeast , which has an energetic , simple style ; the chorinho ( literally little tears ) from rio which combines various types and sizes of guitars , flutes , percussions , and an occasional clarinet or saxophone in a tender form of instrumental music ; and the internationally successful lambada .
here the mani rimdu festival of dances is celebrated every year .
most parks of thailand easily accessible by road , there exists excellent potential to expand the number of visitors who use them .
responsibility of both travelers and service providers is the genuine meaning for eco-tourism. .
on january 23 , 1916 , residents of browning saw the temperature plummet exactly 100 degrees , from 44 degrees above zero to 56 degrees below zero .
some of the fur trappers , traders and miners who followed were african-american , including one who helped build the first mission in the northwest .
before switching over to the early muslim period , it would be proper to point out , very briefly of course , the contribution of people here , in the field of philosophy , literature and archaeology .
nearly thirteen million people live here - wealthy industrialists , flashy film stars , internationally acclaimed artists , workers , teachers and clerks live here .
hyderabad is well connected to delhi , mumbai , chennai , and bangalore and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
it may be about 4 km from the beach , but it makes up for this with its aquatic facilities including a huge swimming pool , jacuzzi and a waterpark that both children and adults will love .
the kamakhya devi temple is located at a little distance from guwahati , the capital city of assam , india .
indian museum , popularly known as jadu ghar ( magic house ) , this is the premier national collection in the subcontinent .
it has also been used as a meeting place for members of the commonwealth of nations since 1962 and is , alas , not open to the public .
there are festivities all around and agra truly puts on the colors of joy and gets transformed into one nonstop carnival .
the time of the year when nature dawns all its colorful splendor and agra bursts into colorful celebrations .
you can not leave meghalaya without tasting genasi na kam : dried fish cooked with green beans and chillies .
on the other hand , motorcyclists are not charged at the woodlands checkpoint .
the trekker in the process , also , gets an exposure to the intriguing socio cultural life of the people living in the chaudans , byans , and darma valleys .
its name maybe z , but this is definitely an a class stay option , and the only hotel of this state to be featured in lonely planet s list of top indian hotels .
lucknow has the best laddoos in india .
cinema houses are ubiquitous , some air conditioned , others not but all screen hindi and marathi films and hollywood hits .
this temple is supposed to be one of the six abodes of the hindu deity lord subramanya .
opened recently , nathu garden resort offers both naga food and if you miss hjome already , there s regular fare as well .
oregon 's nickname , the beaver state , harks back to the early years of the 19th century .
louisiana is located on the southern gulf and is bordered by mississippi on the east , gulf of mexico ( south ) , texas ( west ) , and arkansas ( north ) . at 47 , 720 square miles , louisiana is the the 31st biggest state .
what is comparatively a matter of detail is that vrindavan is believed to have been the stage on which krishna performed his famous romantic and sportive roles .
one of the most important participants in the week of modern art was emiliano di cavalcanti ( 1897-1976 ) , a true bohemian from a family of poets and generals who liked to carouse in the underworld of rio and paint seductive , mulatto women .
blacks were 2.1 percent of the population , asians 1.3 percent , native americans were 0.3 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity were 2.4 percent. native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 1 , 009. .
start with gyakho , a nutritious soup that , at its most royal , can use up to 108 ingredients .
udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes , well structured palaces , lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the lake palace and the city palace .
more mediterranean than maharashtrian , more goan than gujarati , diu is a tiny white pearl , hidden among the flashier jewels of he western coasts .
the taj complex also has emporia of several state governments .
vaivastava , the seventh incarnation of manu found a floating fish in his bathing water , which he nurtured till it , grew into a mammoth fish big enough for sea .
reverend martin luther king jr. and rosa parks were among the first people to ride a fully integrated bus , ending the historic year-long montgomery bus boycott .
according to legend , the origin of pushkar dates back to the time when lord brahma was on his way in search of a tranquil land to perform a `` yagna `` , a lotus fell from the hand of the lord into this valley .
natural walks along the river are a real treat and for adventure lovers rock climbing can be arranged .
october to march is the best time to visit the jaipur city .
local legends have it that the eyes of the statue of mary in bom jesus church have the power of hypnotize onlookers .
journey time between mumbai and goa is approximately 8 hours .
the products on offer in such a visit brokered by india travel destinations are of a varied array .
these perfectly symmetrical monuments took 22 years ( 16301652 ) of hard labor and 20 , 000 workers ; masons and jewelers to built and are set amidst landscaped gardens .
further south you can enjoy water adventures along both the west and the east coasts of india .
jaiselmer fort is the oldest fort in the world .
during your tours to the hazratbal mosque in srinagar , kashmir , india you will notice that this is the only mosque in kashmir that has a dome as all the other mosques have pagoda like roofs .
once an extraordinary street lined with shops offering a variety of layered and stuffed paranthas , pranthewali gali has only a few parantha stalls left ; but it is still foodie heaven .
the coastal water surrounding the islands andamans and lakshadweep is the abode of one of the richest coral reef ecosystem is the world .
conventionally made by mixing clay with straw and fashioning each part individually before joining them , today , the popularity of these items have led potters to use moulds for terracotta items .
the best part about orissa is that it is relatively untouched and pure .
however , few relics of this memorable era remain .
hotels , resorts and lodges etc to suit all budgets are available at port blair and some other places also .
khwaja ishaq shami , one of his predecessors settled in a hamlet called chishti near hirat .
the temple of goddess saraswathi , the one and only temple of this deity in south india , located at basar is a famous pilgrim place .
some tour operators organize elephant safaris between jaipur and pushkar .
manali is a charming and ebullient hill station in india capping the hills in himalayas in himachal pradesh .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
india offers some unique destinations that are best reached in jeeps .
they maintained a good relationship with the mauryans so that they can remain independent for a long time .
the smell of fish , spices , cheese and vegetables permeates the air , as people of various ethnic groups from different village gather to haggle , bargain and barter .
chhattisgarh is also home to many indigenous tribes and communities .
one can reach kumbhalgarh by road from udaipur ( 84km ) and ranakpur which is 18km from kumbhalgarh .
allahabad s majestic fort has three magnificent galleries flanked by high towers .
shimla , kullu-manali and dalhousie are popular town centers .
the site india travel destinations offers you tour booking and online tour reservations for temple tours to the northeastern state of assam , india .
just nearby is kelmscott house , a gorgeous brick villa purchased by william morris from the poet george macdonald in the late 19th century .
fort union was established in 1828 , serving as a base of operations for john jacob astor 's american fur company , which controlled the region 's trade .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
the preceding sight-seeing sites are just a little part of the pretty attractions of zhouzhuang .
the raja however died before the delivery of the said items .
kamat lokaruchi : this vegetarian eatery is said to best represent the cuisine of the state ( apart from the coasts ) across all three meals .
the gurungs and magars live mainly in the west. while the rais , limbus and sunuwars inhabits the slopes and valleys of the eastern mid hills .
to watch an entire village tranforns logs o light - colored wood ( called tellaponiki by lacals ) into smiling gods and goddesses , cherubic children or colorful birds , visit kondapllli .
shimla variety of green chillies is extensively grown in the shimla hills to be sold to tourists and others .
mahabpdhi temple kushinagar is a historic site of great significance as it is here that lord buddha passed away .
away from the bustling markets , is a spot that marks grim memories of india s struggle for independence .
literally an oasis surrounded by the rocky aravalli hills ajmer is a major tourist destination because of its eventful history , spiritual sites and the neighboring village of pushkar .
facilities provided include a touring route , demonstrative research plant plots , parking areas , toilets and beverages .
khumbu region is the land of the sherpa people and the world 's great 8 , 000 meter peaks .
india travel destination , out travel guide , provides an opportunity for fellow travelers to visit sikkim and its attendant wilderness with its package tours and provides supplementary information on the propagated tour .
skin along in a boat , trot up a pony ride . chug around in a toy train , wander about in the foir ground , and dress up your mind in the theatre .
chose your pleasure and your place at this charming plantation getaway treck , go on a coracle ride , go birding , explore the nature trail , and wind down with the delicious barbecue under the stars , before retiring to your cosy colonial bungalow for the night .
kishangarh is a veritable house of art and is renowned the world over for kishangarh miniature paintings .
this ancient and holy temple is located close to patnitop and is famous for the asad purnima festival that is organized here annually .
tucked away in the crowed streers of gandhi bazaar , vidyarthi bhawan has served its loyal patrons since 1938 .
maharastra is the perfect place to start on an enlightening tour .
a network of rivers runs through the state , with a wide variety of fresh water fish like mahaseer , hilsa , saul , rohu , mirgal , katla and trout .
myriad tribes who still preserve their own identities , cultures , traditions and lifestyles inhabit this state , which has stayed in glorious isolation for so long .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
a major tourist destination in the indian map today , bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century bce .
moreorless , it is the religious preferences and the agricultural practices followed by the tribes of arunachal pradesh , which account for the uniqueness of this hill station in india .
there is a lot one can pick up in handicrafts , but beware of the touts who lead you into shops that overcharge and pay a hefty commission .
the area of chonburi boasts abundant natural resources , which are highlighted by delightful beaches , local colors , traditions , delicacies and fresh seafood .
the farm is situated amidst the hills of lonavala and matheran , and is designed like an ethnic indian village .
this southwestern monsoon arrives here by end june september and the city receives a moderate amount of rainfall though the surrounding region varies from arid to semi arid to fertile .
during the 16th century , the island was also a popular trading port for tin with portuguese , dutch , english and french traders flocking to the island .
unfortunately , syal roti is not widely available in restaurants , but some of the posher hotels serve it .
an enchanting city nestled in a tranquil valley ; it is the starting point for many of nepal 's most popular trekking and rafting destinations .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
in agra there are a number of exquisite buildings like moti masjid - a white marble mosque akin to a perfect pearl ; diwan-am , diwan-e-khaas , musamman burj - where shahjahan died in 1666 a.d. jahangir 's palace ; khaas mahal and shish mahal .
at the north end of sa bohk korani , which flows through a winding passage in the mountain , is a wood carving of a footprint of the lord buddha and a shrine of chao pho to yuan - to chong .
the tastier version , vouch locals , is the one prepared by boiling rice and pork / beef with spices made at home .
uppada , a beach town located 20 kms from kakinada is famous for beautifully designed cotton sarees .
durgam cheruvu : hidden by hills and rocks , the lake s serenity , despite its proximity of the city comes as a surprise .
other places to visit would be canary hill , hazaribagh lake , wild life sanctuary , tilaiya dam , rajrappa , konar dam .
the old section of the anand bhawan called was donated to the nation in 1930 by pandit motilal nehru .
if you want to get away from the bustle of the town and choose tranquil nature instead , orchid lake resort , umian , the place for you .
the most delightful stuff to take home from shimla consists of freshly bottled mushroom pickle , apple and cinnamon jam , and apple litchi juices .
dutch palace , also known as the mattancherry palace , was built by the portuguese and presented to the cochin raja in 1555 a.d. .
guwahati is connected by good motor able roads with shillong , kaziranga national park , manas wildlife sanctuary , dimapur , itanagar , imphal , agartala , aizwal , gangtok , darjeeling , calcutta , and kohima .
the museum also has photographs of the tribal groups and extensive information about their culture , and makes for a great learning experience .
bangkok is dotted with 400 glittering buddhist temples of great beauty and fascination , magnificent palaces , classical dance extravaganzas , numerous shopping centers and traditional ways of life .
kerala enjoys unique geographic features which has made it one of the most sought after tourist destinations in asia .
is it simply a temple ? , how could it take its place among other unique structures such as the pyramid , the hanging gardens , and the colossus of rhodes .
one hundred and thirty-one years later , two frenchmen named marquette and joliet visited arkansas briefly .
nainital , as a hill station in india enjoys a pride of place among other hill stations in india courtesy its natural charm and elegance .
nearest underground stops : charing cross , covent garden , embankment , leicester square .
. the whole architectural complex is of the qing 's style and occupies an area of more than 2 , 000 square meters ( half an acre .
rag dolls have colorful , spangled costumes and expressive , painted eyes make them attractive decoration pieces .
the main bana lingam that is situated in the main sanctum of the temple has a number of shiva lingams carved on it .
the biggest rivers found in the central java are serayu river , with its source from the dieng plateau and `` bengawan solo `` river .
couples who have a yen for adventure sports can go for a visit down ski lane to kufri , which is one of the best available skiing fields in india .
mhara gaam , with its ethnic decor , strategically situated wells and hukkas , and traditional sit-down community meals can be charming if you keep your mind open and your luxury needs low .
thailand , in the heart of southeast asia , was never colonised and thus kept its unique culture and heritage intact .
kochi carnival held from december 25-31 , offers a kaleidoscope of performing arts , including kathakali , classical dance , martial arts and boat races .
it is generally believed that large inhabitants of this region had actually migrated from central asia and the indian plains from time to time .
the fur trade inspired the founding of fort pierre , the first permanent settlement , in 1817 .
pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of india .
besides the local fare , chinese and south indian restaurants are also widespread .
trace gujarat s historical and cultural evolution of through the centuries at the unesco world heritage site of champaner pavagadh archeological park .
the mall cuts through the middle of royal london .
the northern point of the lake is called as mallital and the southern part as tallital .
parts of colorado were included in the kansas territory. miners formed the illegal territory of jefferson , which lasted until colorado became a legal territory on february 28 , 1861. on august 1 , 1876 colorado become the 38th state to unite under america .
the resort prides itself on its eco friendly policies , and the restaurant serves oraganic vegetables ( including preparations containing orchids , ferns and nettles .
it is believed that this saint achieved mahaparinirvana that liberated him from the cycle of birth and death .
on the edges of almora the koshi and suyal rivers cut through the mountains , while the hill sides are lined with fir and pine forests .
kanak bhawan has images of sri rama and sita wearing gold crowns. it is also known as sone-ke-ghar. .
save up all exchange receipts ( encashment certificates ) ; these are required for visa extensions and other formalities , and when you want to convert rupees at the end of your trip .
once the private game reserve of the mysore maharajas , this large shoals or forest ( 874 sq km ) south of the river kabini is now part of the nilgiri biosphere reserve and one of wwfs ( world wide fund for nature ) project tiger sites .
the u .s . purchased an immense tract of land from france in the louisiana purchase of 1803. the new lands included present kansas .
a trip across the state can lead from mississippi river bottomlands to mid-america 's most prominent peaks ; from a legacy of deep south cotton culture to a town on a wild west frontier .
phu wua wildlife sanctuary near the mekong river contains a number of beautiful waterfalls .
according to historical records this temple was built sometime in the 12th century .
other direct connections are to delhi ( 1395 km ) and one , every five days to amritsar via delhi .
so leave those hectic schedules , rush hour traffic and stressful deadlines behind and come to land that takes you miles away from the maddening rush , just slow down , take a break , and rediscover tyourself .
chennai , the largest city in southern india located on the coromandel coast of the bay of bengal , chennai beach image developed after 1639 when the british east india company established a fort and trading post at the small fishing village of chennai .
the trek winds along the river mandakini , through dense forests , and across roaring waterfalls .
it s a craft paradise by over 3 , 000local craftsmen. take your pick from bouquet of lacquerware creations wooden toys ( perhaps the best take back gifts for the little ones in your family ) , long curtains , rings and a range of jewellery .
it is in fact an enigma of mud huts & sky - scrapers , age old traditions & high fashions , the industrialists ' heaven & movie makers ' hollywood .
the ancient community the people , who fled the massacre of king siriboonsarn , was established as a province with the name ubon ratchathani srivanalai in 1792 during the reign of king rama i , the first king of the chakri dynasty .
try not to think that lacquer is made of the refuse of the insects that tribals go about collecting in ferests , and this artwork will seem even better .
unusual animals are popular in the province , with the cobra and the turtle villages high on tourist programmes .
outside the fort is the main market place called manak chowk which is the centre of local activity .
rose garden situated in the heart of ooty town , this garden has been beautifully laid out in terraces with rose tunnels , pergolas and bowers with rose .
for a close look at old ahmedabad , try the of the cityorganised by the ahmedabad municipal corporation ( amc ) that takes you through the pols ( byways and alleys ) of the city , revealing crowded bazaars , havelis ( manors ) with exquisitely carved house fronts and lavish courtyards .
held at the dargah ( mausoleum ) of the sufi saint , pilgrims come from across the muslim world , as do devotees of other religions , to pay homage to the saint on his death anniversary .
there are many tourist places one can enjoy seeing they are birla planetorium , state museum , zoological park , bird sanctuary and more .
very few have ventured onto the continent and those who do will usually rave about the privilege of gazing upon topography that yields towering mountains , bulky glaciers and luminous , dreamlike icebergs , carved into curious shapes .
the belur math shrine represents a church , mosque and temple when viewed from different angles .
large bags , cameras , phones , radios and cassette recorders can not be brought into the court and unfortunately there are no facilities to leave them outside .
it is best to buy sing-ju from are the women , both old and young , selling it in the lanes of imphal .
on diamond harbour road , the gurusaday museum has a small but rich collection of the folk arts and crafts on undivided bengal .
the best time to visit jaipur city is in between october to march .
tripura is presently open to tourists and special permits are no longer required .
a recuperative intake of fine wine at corney and barrow 's might help stave off the worst effects of a visit to your stockbroker , accountant or bookmaker even , never mind you re bank .
the hindu pilgrim city , paithan lies on the banks of the godavari , 56 km south of aurangabad .
peacock bar and restaurant is one of the most popular restaurants in diu , this place serves tasty tandoori pomfret and excellently prepared grilled fish with lemon butter sauce .
the white marble exteriors are faced in red stone and the altar displays fine marble inlay work .
the beach can be ideally visited in the early mornings or in the late evenings when the area becomes a virtual fair ground ; with food stalls and other entertainment .
the place also has a large auditorium .
if forts can be ornate , umaid bhawan palace is a palace we are talking about .
if you keep your head and watch out for other sea traffic , especially swimmers and snorkellers , rocks are usually markes , but take care , especially at low tide .
the best way to see sand dunes and other sights around jaisalmer is to take a camel safari .
four peaks above eight thousand meters i.e. , k-2 , gasherbrum 1 & 2 and broad peak are situated in karakoram in a radius of just twenty kms around a famous glacial junction called concordia .
manali is referred to as the `` cradle between the lesser himalaya .
the highest grade climbed is currently 32 ; serious climbing starts around 10 , beginners normally do the early tens and then move upwards .
this is an excellent place from which to start your time in greenwich .
the perfect accompaniments to a hot cuppa .
fort kearny was established along the route to protect these travelers .
important sites worth visiting in gokul include the gokulnath temple , raja thakur temple , gopal lalji temple and the morwala temple .
the duty on articles brought by the visitor varies according to the volume and value of the goods .
the decor at the orchid is very minimalist , built with sustainable raw materials and in a way that is requires minimal heating , lighting , and electricity .
though dadra & nagar haveli is not a typical shopping destination , it still does offer some unique and authentic buys at reasonable prices .
seminomadic and nomadic tribes included the cheyenne , cree , sioux , assiniboin , crow , and ojibwa ( chippewa ) .
in time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years .
often inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones , the design essentially consists of coiled dragons on earings , pendants and rings .
the northern area of pakistan is a place where the world 's three famous mountain ranges meet - the himalayas , the karakorams and the hindukush .
it is the waters of the yellow river and its spirit that nurture the whole chinese nation .
a stone inscription reads in part , this muang sukhothai is good. in the water there are fish ; in the field there is rice .
uttar pradesh is an important centre of industry in the country .
today small shrines carved from teak are popular , as are traditional devakottai and karaikkudi panels , which are often used as wall decorations .
in 1915 , king rama vi changed the name chaiya to surat thani .
india is a vast country known for its diversified culture and traditions .
permits for climbing peaks in open zone , are issued by the ministry of tourism , within 24 hours of the receipt of application .
with none of the cookie cutter sameness of larger resorts , all rooms in nilaya hermitage features different color schemes and decor .
first visited by the spanish explorer hernando de soto in 1540 , the tennessee area would later be claimed by both france and england as a result of the 1670s and 1680s explorations of jacques marquette and louis joliet , sieur de la salle , and james needham and gabriel arthur .
it is 80 km from mysore , and a similar distance from ooty , which takes 2 hours by road .
this was where the maharajas did all their secret wheeling and dealing with the chief commissioner - as it was much more discreet here than to visit him publicly at his administrative capital in ajmer .
parasailing in india has another advantage attached to it .
phuket is divided into 3 administrative counties namely amphoe muang , amphoe thalang and amphoe kathu .
for seafood lovers , there is a lot more to sample than just phuket 's famous lobster .
to put it simply , pattaya is a paradise for everyone , as it has a variety of attractions suitable for all types of visitors .
first of all he set himself to finding a practical application for the tower , which had only been built to stand for twenty years .
if you like it hot , try hortense hot springs located in the san isabel national forest .
after years of losing land and wars to other indian groups and european colonists , the illiniweks were moved to a kansas reservation .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
his predecessors preferred agra , delhi or lahore all in the north , and aurangzeb 's move was not unopposed .
shri satya sai baba ashram is now more or less a suburb of bangalore , with increased access lines and more people moving into the neighborhood .
the first european trading post was allegedly established at salina by the chouteau family of st. louis before oklahoma was given to the unites states as part of the louisiana purchase of 1803 .
allahabad is a city of mixed culture of hindu , muslims , jains and christans .
on that day a ray of sunlight passes through an arch between the horns of stone bull that stands outside the temple and lights up the idol inside .
the palace has towers , open pavilions , summerhouses and little bridges , making it a great place to explore .
bangalore is one of asia 's fastest growing cities .
chail is a very small hamlet and a hill station where you can discover nature at its best untouched by the pollution , deforestation and modern construction .
canoeing and kayaking are two ways to enjoy the spectacular seascape , limestone cliffs and caves in krabi 's waters as these sports allow visitors to explore hidden offshore areas at a more leisurely pace .
and yet , this unashamedly capitalist crucible hides another side .
for dessert , try the laddoos in coconut and jaggery , let looks not put you off , these laddoos just melt in the mouth .
daman delight is easily one of the best places to eat in daman , the restaurant at hotel gurukripa comes closest to offering authentic damanese cuisine .
malinithan and bhismaknagar these are the two important archaeological sites in the arunachal pradesh .
it is one of the world 's economic giants and is revered for its football prowess , coffee production and distinctive music such as samba and bossa nova .
some 22 km from aurangabad is a small walled town , khuldabad ( also called rauza .
do take time out to go to daulatabad , 13 km from aurangabad ( reroute to ellora ) , to see the awe inspiring fort perched on the top of an insurmountable 200 meter rock hillock .
around some of the concrete corners there are unexpected surprises , like a couple of ancient churches that survived the bulldozer , and even sections of the old london wall .
the state of california , a chaotic mix of ethnicity s and incomes , hopes and cynicism was born .
made in a kaleidoscope of colors , and often interwoven with delicate gold thread , these saris have become an integral part of karnataka s heritage .
to their credit , the spanish envisioned the native population as playing an important role as catholic citizens , but the mission / presidio system failed to adopt the indians to this role and failed to attract a sufficient number of spanish settlers .
east java has a variety of attractions , from temple sites to scenic beaches , a sand-sea , highland-lakes , volcanoes , marine gardens and wildlife reserves .
during the decade of the 1830 's both the supply and price of beaver skins declined , forcing traders to turn to hunting buffalo .
indian nationals need no special permits to visit andamans , however permits are required to visit nicobar islands , issued by the deputy commissioner , andamans at port blair .
not far from the bustling city of vadodara , a high timeless reminder of the rich historical heritage of gujarat looms up from the dusty earth the 800m high pavagadh hill , it s ancient reddish yellow stone testifying to the fact that it is india s one of the oldest rock formation .
yet the colossus earned a place in the famous list of wonders . `` but even lying on the ground , it is a marvel `` , said pliny the elder .
in the rocks south of pattaya lurk species native to the gulf of thaialnd : red snapper , yellow jack , bonito , black-tipped sharks. cobia and giant garoupers .
the sanctuary is an easy trek from pokhara and takes one through some of nepal 's most lovely rhododendron forests to the annapurna base camp .
nestled in a narrow valley , the beautiful vidyadhar 's garden was built in honor of jai singh 's chief architect and town planner .
capital of nepal , the mystical valley-kathmandu is nepal 's biggest and most cosmopolitan city , a meeting place of a dozen ethnic groups , and the home town of the newars .
karnataka is the meeting point of traditional and modern india , i feel any journey to india should begin from bengalooru ( formerly bangalore ) or mysore .
lake offers boating and sailing facilities and is a delight for the trigger happy photographs and film makers .
a long line of picturesque ghats with their steps leading to the water 's edge , arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right bank of the river yamuna , emphasis the sacred character of the town of mathura .
the red brick building spreads over five acres of land and houses one of the capital s best loved restaurants , the great kabab factory .
in 1792 captain george vancouver of britain became the first european to complete a detailed survey of the washington coast and the inland waters .
experience the nature s healing touch at this garden retreat : angsana oasis resort and spa , a few hours from bangalore .
the eatery has a casual shake like atmosphere and serves some of the greatest goan food in the region .
stop at hodka , which offers an insight into a cross section of embroidery as well as other crafts like the rare ragan painted fabrics stay at the ngo-run shaam e sarhad rural resort , all mud huts , local food and rustic yet comfortable ambience .
visit allhabad in december-january for the choicest picks of the fruit .
almost all the gift shops in nainital have candles .
from kumarghat you can take a bus to agartala .
in mid-life aleijadinho contracted a crippling disease , but he continued to work for another 30 years with chisel and mallet strapped to his wrists .
indian airlines connect hyderabad with bhubaneswar , bangalore , mumbai , calcutta , delhi , chennai , nagpur and vishakapatnam .
you can stay at the mirasol resort which has a manmade artificial lake or frolic in the wave pool at the mini water park , making this an ideal place for a family holiday .
one can hike to the back of the valley or take numerous optional trips to explore glacier-filled side canyons .
the terrain that india provides from the deserts to the beaches , to the mountains tests not only the skills of the realists but also their mettle .
jamavar is the leela s indian specialty restaurant , which takes you through a culinary journey into the ancient art of dining .
sheermal rich , royal creation is a spongy bread made of four , milk , ghee and saffron , and traditionally cooked in the iron tandoor .
these are activities which have brought haryana onto the international tourism map .
built in wanli era ( 1573 - 1619 ) of the ming dynasty , twin bridges is in the northeast of the town .
lapao cave is the largest quartzite cave in the americas , excellent for experienced rappellers .
construction of the palace complex began in 1407 , the 5th year of the yongle reign of the third emperor of the ming dynasty .
udaipur , the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green aravali range and crystal clear water lake .
ajmer is a centre of culture and education , the british chose it for its prestigious mayo college a school exclusively for indian nobility .
upstream of the krishna river is nagarjunakonda associated with the famous buddhist scholar of 2nd century , nagarjuna .
the honey tastes quite different from what you find in the markets elsewhere , and as such , has a very distinct flavour that many claim complete addition to .
madras is also the fountainhead of the theosophical movement which spread worldwide .
museum of kerala history is one of the best looks into the history of kerala .
along the coastal plain and in much of the piedmont , summers are generally hot , and winters are mild .
within this alluring arena , the garhwal and kumaon regions , occupy the central place , with special points of interest for the trekker .
there are a few luxury hotels around the park that arrange their own elephant safaris and jeep rides .
the last of the plains indians were the focus of the popular movie dances with wolves , which was filmed in south dakota .
ferry services to ko phi phi are provided from this beach all year round .
arkansas 's native american population was peaking when the spanish explorer hernando de soto reached the state in 1541 .
a fine array of places to eat and drink offers history , as at the trafalgar tavern in park row , contemporary chill at time , in college approach , or traditional at the admiral hardy , also in college approach .
celebrated in ballads and the scriptures for its natural beauty and closely associated with the epic ramayan , chitrakoot or `` the hill of many wonders `` is a hallowed centre of pilgrimage .
a tour to sikkim would easily reveal that its biodiversity is rich with lots of delights on offer for wildlife and nature aficionados , alike .
the traveler in me came to the fore on my padayatra , during which i covered 1 , 450 km in rural andhra , that s when i realized that there s more to this part of country than the scenic beauty of its sloping hills , picturesque valleys and rivers .
in 1955 , rosa parks , a black seamstress , is arrested for refusing to give up her seat for a boarding white passenger as required by montgomery city ordinance .
of all the remarkable facts about the london eye , perhaps the most astonishing is that it was ever built at all .
the trek to rara lake begins at jumla , a village in a trans-himalayan valley with high rides covered with forests and alpine pastures .
a quadrangle within has tall ornate arches and a 61meter tower crested with domes .
the original american elevators by otis in the north and south piers took visitors up to the second floor in a double-decker cabin , using hydraulically powered cables .
fundamentally , eco-tourism means making as little environmental impact as possible and helping to sustain the indigenous populace , thereby encouraging the preservation of wildlife and habitats when visiting a place .
jodhpur not only offers tangibles , in terms of what you can see and buy but also fills one with a sense of history and the splendors of an era gone forever .
a fiercely potent drink , feni is made either of cashew or coconut palm .
in addition , the island provides tourist facilities while ko lanta noi is the location of the district office .
botanical garden was laid out in 1847 by the marquis of tweedale and is spread over 55 acres .
to the south of the allahabads main railway station lie the mughal gardens known as khusrau bagh .
apart from its beautiful beaches and unique and varied ecosystems , the galapagos islands are home to towering active volcanoes .
the most exotic mansions or havelis , all intricately latticed , are stretched all over jaisalmer , each with a different facade .
the maha kumbh mela - the `` great `` kumbh mela - is the largest religious fair in india .
after the power station closed down , a number of suggestions were put forward for its feature .
about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horseshoe .
the state of maharashtra is one of the largest in india .
if you looking for a slice of everyday naga life , head to the local bazaar that spring up regularly near the war cemetery .
the tharpa choeling gompa , which belongs to the yellow hat ( gelukpa ) sect of tibetan buddhism , is a 40 minute walk from town .
situated about 30 km from the city , the zoological park is spread over an area of 510 hectares .
also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , it is a marshy area , which was originally built as a hunting retreat of the kings of bharatpur .
its excellent workmanship and grand scale make it truly outstanding .
the central shrine at the dhathamandir faces the north-east and is constructed of a green limestone .
the initials correspond to the monogram of the once powerful dutch east india company , which had its office in cochin for almost 150 years .
singapore s geographical location is 136.8 km north of the equator , between latitudes 103 degrees 38 ' e and 104 degrees 06 ' e .
note that since the original market is now being rebuilt , the shops have been shifted to the children s park temporarily .
bangkok is now the country 's spiritual , cultural , diplomatic , commercial and educational hub .
the bridge over the firth of forth in scotland , opened in 1889 , achieved a record span of 521 meters .
roads link the neighboring states to agartala .
india is home to a rich diversity of wildlife .
visit rishikesh , explore the ancient town of haridwar and watch the ganga rush along , full of pride .
from the early period of its history , tribes like the koilis , halis , dagis , dhaugris , dasa , khasas , kinnars and kirats inhabited it .
during the last four decades of the 18th century , new art appeared ( especially in rio de janeiro ) in which religious themes were no longer predominant .
opulent heritage palaces , quiet forests retreats , chic boutique hotels or trip on a luxury train maharashtra has it all .
a treaty was signed in 1868 , but whites broke it in 1876 , after gold was discovered on native american land in the black hills .
machha ghanta , don t get misled by that rather amusing name or the baleful fish s head staring back at you from the plate will give a nasty shock .
the war was fought not only between american and british forces , but also between citizens who became revolutionaries , the whigs , and those still swearing allegiance to the king , the tories .
the population soared , quickly ( and brutally ) overwhelming the californian and indians .
with minimalistic interious , it is well known for its rich moussaka , hummus served with delicious , unusual dips and the honey and fig ice cream .
jaipur is well connected to delhi , bombay , ahemadabad through regular flights of indian airlines .
the ultimate realization of emperor shahjahan s dreams one of the wonders of the world .
the wildlife parks and sanctuaries spread across the country , offer a fascinating diversity of terrain , flora and fauna .
ima keithal in imphal is the largest market in asia run by women .
silk and cotton are finely woven together to create gossamer fine chanderi ( named for a small town in the district of guna ) saris are another must buy .
characterized by beautiful georgian houses running along the bank of the thames and surrounded by the green expanses of barnes common , putney common and the vast acres of richmond park , barnes does indeed seem a world away from the hustle and bustle of london .
eco-tourism is considered the fastest growing market in the tourism industry , according to the world tourism organization with an annual growth rate of 5 % worldwide and representing 6 % of the world gross domestic product , 11.4 % of all consumer spending - not a market to be taken lightly .
there are two tourist offices , one of up tourism near clarks shiraz hotel ( 64 taj road , ph ( 0562 ) 360517 ) and the other of the government of india ( 191 the mall , ph ( 0562 ) 363377 .
sheikhpura kothi , all marble and kitsch , plush rooms and airy terraces , this one is sure to surprise those who think haryana is all about the mass of high-rises that is gurgaon .
on the other hand , at night , there are restaurants , bars , theaters , cabaret shows , and night clubs , bowling halls , billiard & snooker clubs , discos , sauna & massage parlors , not to cite its absolutely incredible shopping which is available non-stop both day-and-nights. .
when kansas was opened to white settlers i n 1870 , congress sold the rest of the osage lands , turned the money over to the tribe and opened a reservation for them which later became osage county .
taxis and hired cars with chauffeurs are readily available because the road network is the only effective way of communication between the neighbouring states and mizoram by train mizoram does not have any rail links .
the months from december to february are pretty cool .
apart from shopping you can also visit dense sambalpur forest , home to a wide variety of flora and fauna .
in ancient times , a statue of poseidon adorned the summit of the building .
pick up neat tumblers ( the ones you need for you filter coffee ) , bowls , tiffin carriers ( in more shapes and sizes than you can think of ) , idli cookers and various containers from one of the innumerable shops in pondy bazaar an gn chetty road in the bustling t nagar area .
the station road is the main road in badami ; the architectural complex lies to the east of it .
sightseeing almora still retains elements of its past as a popular summer getaway for british experts working in india during the glory days of the british raj .
there are local buses but you may not want to risk these and for the rest , public transportation is really quite inadequate .
a section of the track is shaped like a w and the train has to move in changing directions .
if you have and interest in these artifacts and handlooms , you will find them all around .
in case of accident / death of a low / high altitude porter , action shall be taken on the above lines. in addition , a l. o. / m . g. shall obtain from the civil surgeon concerned a certificate of his / their disablement / death for insurance purposes .
you can buy exotic condiments , dried fish , embroidered scarves and a whole lot more .
as rich as its natural diversity , the state s past has handed on a legacy that comes in the form of both built and intangible heritage .
major international credit cards are accepted in large hotels and shops in cities like dehradun or in more touristy places don t count on it though ; carry adequate cash to be on the safe side .
the golden temple sits on a rectangular platform in the centre of the amrit sarovar .
if you re going to restrict yourself to the cities or the top tourist destinations , you an expect to shell out close to a thousand bucks a day for good accommodation , transport and dining maybe more .
eco-tourism is consecrated for preserving and sustaining the diversity of the world 's natural and cultural environments .
bengal has always been known for its silk ; today its trademark is the baluchari sari , woven it the town of baluchar in murshidabad district .
climate ahmedabad has a very hot and humid climate with summer temperatures soaring up to 45 celsius .
the mountains can be reached by taking a 15-minute long tail boat ride from chao fa pier .
bhopali cuisine is at its best at shahnama and the new italian restaurant never disappoints .
with the intricate network of mountain rivers flowing through a myriad of different colors of rocky gorges , forests , flowers and high mountain villages , the garhwal and kumaon hills provide ideal locales for the perfect water adventure .
such motorcycle safaris are not only famous for their reaching of destinations within a stipulated time limit but also for the vast array of people , cultures , fairs and festivals which the mobike riders can get to know while astride their culture machines .
northern areas of pakistan , spread over 72 , 496 sq.km. are as fascinating as its southern region .
amaravati is a small rural village which is predominantly hindu and with a small population of muslims too .
besides the vast , soothing expanses of sand , water and coconut groves , there are ayurvedic health resorts , yoga and meditation centers , shopping outlets , and some equally therapeutic nightlife .
of course , you are far more likely to be gazing lovingly at your sea food platter , which comes complete with prawns , calamari , pomfret , king fish , oyster and whichever other edible creatures was fished up during the day s catch .
you ll find excellent bengal cottons in adi dhakeswari vastralaya and rmca basak in gariahat in kolkata .
set amidst the hills the small and clean exquisite town of palampur is bejeweled with lush green terraced fields , the majestic deodar trees , beautiful tea gardens , pine forests the snow clad and breath taking dhauladhar range with its imposing sky high peaks .
adi shankaracharya , one of the greatest gurus of hindu spirituality established his ashram in kancheepuram which is 75 kms from chennai .
built by akbar in red sandstone when he was through with the consolidation of his power after accession to power in 1654 , agra fort worked both as a military strategic point as well as the royal residence .
first the pieces were assembled in the factory using bolts , later to be replaced one by one with thermally assembled rivets , which contracted during cooling thus ensuring a very tight fit .
known as the mother river by all the chinese people , the 5464-kilometer ( about 3395 miles ) yellow river is the second longest river in china after the yangtze river .
it was built in honor of the greek goddess of hunting , wild nature , and fertility .
a few facts about the climate are that kerala does not have a dry spell as is in rest of india .
the island is connected to phang-nga province by sarasin bridge and thep krasattri bridge .
every time i am in orissa i spend time at the saree shops , as much for the joy of handling the sarees as buying them .
the palace is also the administrative headquarters of the monarchy .
this sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from jammu , india .
while the civil war was beginning far away to the east , cochise , geronimo , and mangas coloradas were attacking travelers and soldiers and raiding stagecoaches , ranches , and small settlements in the southwest and mexico .
wherever you 're going in the barbican , the best plan is to enter the centre by the nearest entrance .
it houses the idols of the five avataras of sri vishnu and has a small temple shrine dedicated to vishnu 's consort called vedavalli ammai in this part of the country .
legend says the mirror was also used to detect and burn enemy ships before they could reach the shore .
a memorial plaque at the entrance recounts the history of the jallianwala bagh massacre .
other architectural remains include that of agnigarh , bamuni hills , bhairavi and mahabhairab temples and the twin tanks of bar pukhuri and padum pukhuri .
hire a jeep from here and explore the more remote areas of the country .
as part of the alterations , marble arch , which was originally the entrance to the palace , was moved to a new position at the corner of hyde park .
the royal bengal tiger ( 75 in the park ) and leopard are even more elusive here than elsewhere because the moister region that they inhabit falls under the protected core area where casual visitors are not allowed .
the older parts of the city are famous for their admixture of indo saracenic architecture .
perhaps more than anywhere else , antarctica reminds those who visit it of the awesome ( and savage ) power of nature .
the age old art of dyes and colours hold the centre of attraction .
the aryans with their superior war tactics defeated the local tribes and settled here permanently .
lucknow s chowk area has lines of shops selling the most intricate of designs .
in the beautiful `` lake district `` of nainital , facilities of boating through yachts , paddleboats and traditional rowing bots are available .
the island is in fact one extended museum , completed with weather-beaten buildings such as the ballroom , the governor s house , the chief commissioner s house , a bakery swimming pool and troop barracks .
today , this rose garden has the largest collection of roses in the country .
there is a circuit house for staying overnight at this secluded spot .
all naga shawls might seem the same , but each tribe has a distinctive design - the angami tribal use red and yellow bands on a black background , the lotha tribal shawls are woven into a graded pattern , and the ao warrior shawls have boar , elephant or tiger motifs .
the jallianwala bagh , about 400 meters north of the golden temple , is a small stretch of plain ground now converted into a park .
alabama is sometimes called the heart of dixie because of its central location among the southern states .
the mogao caves are a depository of historical and cultural exchanges over more than a thousand years between china and other nations .
some estimates suggest that native americans had arrived in florida as early as 10 , 000 years before the first europeans .
covent garden is now home to numerous interesting shops and market stalls as well as a myriad of street entertainers who perform at every opportunity .
ulsoor lake is an ideal place for sightseeing , boating and shopping .
the mysore masala dosa , the default order , unless you catch the waiter s attention long enough to choose ) is arguably the best in town , with its crispy sides , dollop of butter and delectable coconut chutney .
silvassa is about 10 km from bilhad on the mumbai ahmedabad highway .
in 1836 , michigan achieved statehood and iowa then became a part of wisconsin territory .
mentioned by the 7 th century chinese traveler hiuen tsang , this tree is considered sacred and devotees would jump from it to gain moksha ( salvation ) .
the fivestoreyed palace is one of the prominent buildings in the fort .
chennai presents a culture that is distinctly different from that of northern india .
the freedom of embrace religion is fully guaranteed by government. islam is a greatest number among the five recognized religions ( moslem , protestant , catholic , buddha and hindu .
one needs prior permission form the secretary to visit the palace .
the lal mata temple is an important tourist attraction in haridwar , india and is quite like the temple at vaishno devi in kashmir , india .
city getaways two hours by road from badami , aihole used to be the regional capital of the chalukyan kings between the 4th and 6th centuries ad .
the charminar is spectacular at night when it is lit up , and if you can climb up the spiral staircase to the ramparts , you can see the dream the city s founder quli qutb shah had in mind when he ordered the capital to be embellished by mosque , bazaars , and palaces .
in the late 19th century , king rama v appointed a high commissioner in chiang mai and it was only in 1939 that chiang mai finally came under the direct control of the central government in bangkok the same time the country was renamed thailand .
jet-skiing has been taken up with enthusiasm all over thailand with jet-skis available for hire at all major beaches in thailand-samui. .
the island fortress of haidar ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
the twin hills of lonavla and khandala are in the sahyadri ranges .
the place where this all saving and securing vessel was built is known to all of us as , `` manali . currently , it is this life saving height of the mythical age of saints , asuaras and gods , which provides succor and relief to the people in search of calm and quietitude amidst nature 's solitude .
high plateaus and forested mountains are located to the west of the province , while there are low basins in the center and along the eastern coast .
the almost mystically beautiful scenery here provides an ideal setting for some of the state s oldest and most revered monasteries .
ajmer sharief is famous for the tomb of hazrat moinuddin chishti , the saint who founded the sufi order .
the best known is prasat hin phimai , just outside nakhon ratchasima , the largest sandstone sanctuary in thailand of classic khmer design .
the holy town chitrakoot is set in sylvan surroundings on the banks of the river mandakini , also known as the payaswaini river .
located on the west bank of the rankala lake , hotel shalini palace is the only heritage hotel in the whole of maharashtra .
musicians and dancers decked out in fibre masks , plaited straw , and fantastic , feather helmets were retelling the legends of the flood and the creation .
other major rivers in the area ubon are the chee river , moon river , lum saybok river , lum domeyai river and lum domenoi river .
besides the sea , sand and the sun , a typical kerala village with paddy fields and coconut groves nearby completes the idyllic picture that the beach paints .
jaipur is color washed pink to welcome prince albert , the consort of queen victoria of england who visited india in 1883 a.d. .
royally furnished , with colonial touch , the 29 are airy and spacious , and most afford the great views of the river .
porters engaged for a period of more than 7 days shall be paid 50 % of the daily wages for a week on the day they are engaged and the other half shall be paid at the end of the said week .
fairy meadows the last mountain wilderness of the himalayas , lying under the shadow of nanga parbat ( 8 , 126 m ) , waiting for you to explore by helicopter .
the best shops for pedas are opposite the shri krishna janambhoomi temple in mathura .
almora gets extremely cold in winters , october - march with temperatures falling well below 1 c , but june to august is wet , when the monsoons arrive in full fury .
the industrial units , some 1700 of them in and around agra , have been in the eye of a storm in recent times .
named after the legendary king janak , janakpur was the capital of the ancient indian kingdom mithila , the native country of goddess sita , the wife of the hindu god rama and the heroine of the great hindu epic ramayana .
india travel destinations includes among its itinerary , top draws of the order of cochin and munnar .
the colonnade supported a pyramid roof which was in turn decorated with statues .
raed by conde nast traveller as one of the top 10 restaurants in the world , the spice route offers superb food in a truly inspired setting .
the brij has a number of shaivite temples as well. the chief among them being the bhuteshwar mahadev temple to the west of the town , the gokarneshwar temple in the north , the rangeshwar. mahadev temple to the south and the pipaleshwar mahadev temple to the east .
india tourism has a system of approving travel agents / tour operators who conform to prescribed standards of service and quality .
there are quite a few temples in jammu and kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the raghunath temples , kheer bhawani temple , sudh mahadev temple , vaishno devi , amarnath and the shankaracharya temple .
during india s freedom struggle , amritsar became the scene of one of the worst atrocities perpetrated by the british .
the temple dedicated to 14 gods and goddesses , temple , church and the with burmese statues of the buddha are the other places worth a visit .
a jamini roy collection and desmond doig 's pen and ink sketches of calcutta 's nostalgic landmark are also on view .
the temples of dilwara , of course , simply have to be seen , but , in addition , some of the old palaces at mount abu make interesting viewing , like the bikaner palace - where the redoubtable maharaja ganga singh of bikaner used to come each year , with a retinue of 400 people .
the sport of white water river rafting calls for a triumph over the swift swirling river as it gushes past spectacular mountains .
the statue was so high that visitors described the throne more than zeus body and features .
pick up carved wooden tables or chodtses , carpets , thangka paintings and carved ritual masks that are a brilliant not o9f vermillion and turquoise blue at the government-run institute of cottage industries , where over a 100 students can be seen perfecting their crafts .
the best season to visit chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary , 30-hectare park is between november and february .
pakistan international airlines offers , perhaps the most unique air safari on earth : a grandiose flight into the ultimate realm of the mountains ! it is a flight through a virtual forest of literally hundreds of over 7000 meter peaks , inclusive of five that fall into the 14 highest mountains of the world that are over 8 , 000 meters .
around the parikrama , or pathway , are four rectangular cubicles where granthis ( priests ) sit and recite the granth sahib .
it features collections of 19th century oil paintings , sculptures in stone and plaster-of-paris , old coins and items of the cochin royal family .
the later apache wars against the united states ended in 1886 with the surrender of geronimo .
it is worth taking a trip along its waters before exploring further into different canals to take a glimpse of old bangkok .
the population is about 30.7 million ( based on census in 2002 ) or about 896 persons per square kilometer with living as farmer , trader , and official government .
zong dog palri fo-brang gompa , was built in the mid-70s at durpin dara hill and was consecrated by the dalai lama .
opt for one of the two suites , done up in shabistan khwabgah style , khwabgah means dreamhouse ; figure out the rest .
some of the scenic attractions in and around this town would be ranchi hill and ranchi lake , tagore hill , kankedam and jagannath temple , hundru falls , jonha falls , sita and dassam falls , hinri falls , breeding centre and mc cluskieganje .
madan kamdev is an archaeological site where erotic sculptures and other stone carvings abound .
it also requires to hire a licensed mountain guide ; buy a personal accident insurance policy for the guide and the porters and to attend mandatory briefing and de-briefing at the ministry of tourism , on the beginning and end of the trekking trip .
a solid historian will tell you cahmpaner s evolution can be traced so far as back as beginning of the civilization in india , with several pre historic sites dotting the landscape around it .
agra is famous for snacks and sweets like dalmoth and petha , for which the most recognized area is kinari bazar .
the hawai-zar ( fermented soyabean ) and a packet of sunflower seeds are must-buys. .
keep appointments , be punctual ( though that s a value that indians are only now picking up ) , and shake hands if one is offered or greet with hands folded in namaste .
palampur has a quite a reasonable accommodation and is well connected by rail , road and air .
unfortunately , indoors climbing is not found in india but in western countries .
once a portuguese princess ' dowry and later an adornment of neo-gothic british architecture , mumbai today , is more than just a metropolis .
the fort was the site of the military activity during the mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the british .
trekking can be done from october to may , however the best months are october and november the country 's mountainous , hilly and terai regions offer some of the most spectacular trekking in the world .
sightseeing in the agartala stands on the banks of a small lake surrounded by huge mughal gardens .
however , though the english legacy is undeniable , chennai has continued to be a centre which has blended the foreign influence with the traditional tamil-hindu culture .
the desire for land , and later gold , created a swift expansion beyond the old frontier , carrying with it increased trade along rivers and migration of people along new roads into the wilderness .
the goodies come in a wicker basket , and include mouth-watering jalebis , cakes , sweet buns , and sweets made of pounded rice .
you have to remove your shoes before getting on to the platform socks , or cloth shoes available at the base , should be kept on since the marble gets very hot during the day .
history is alive and throbbing in delhi , the capital of india .
the ancient city of ephesus near the modern town of selcuk , about 50 km south of izmir ( smyrna ) in turkey .
it was later in 1303 and in 1323 that two stronger earthquakes left a significant impression on the structure .
eastern kansas was occupied by the osage , pawnee , kansa , and wichita indians , western kansas by the arapaho , cheyenne , commanche , and kiowa .
the power station 's other claim to fame is that it appeared on the front cover of the pink floyd album `` animals `` with a pig flying overhead .
the chitsabha inside the temple is an interesting piece of architecture .
a warning - in the dungeon 's dark catacombs it always pays to keep your wits about you. some of the ' exhibits ' have an unnerving habit of coming back to life .
an ethereal quality full of lightness and grace .
the temperatures are moderate and several festivals coincide with this period .
two weeks in chiang mai may not be long enough for serious travelers .
the most attractive feature of this temple is the statue of lord buddha in a reclining position .
its first effects became apparent the following year , when military forces retook part of the former ' liberated zone .
one can feel the adrenaline level rising as one negotiates the challenges of the steep gradients and traverses unimaginable distances .
the beaver state , webfoot state , oregon 's name is a mystery .
narrow alleys and local bazaars surround the area around the temple .
the annual urs of khwaja moinuddin chisti is held in the month of may and is one of the most visited festivals in india .
chatori gali famous for biryani and kebabs near ibrahimpura is the best bet but there s a lone stall in budhwara with the most melt-in-mouth seekh kebabs .
other than its renowned embroidery , kutch is also specializes in block printing with vegetable dyes .
the best place to watch odissi is puri and konark , which come alive with annual dance festival .
the ' creoles ' are descended from the french , some spanish , and even some german settlers who came to the colony in the 18th century .
a mutton dish with saffron , you ll find the chandi and the mahi variety of kaliya , but the kundan kaliya is special .
mysore is a major craft centre with numerous shops selling an incredible range of ivory , sandalwood , rosewood and teak carvings and furniture .
throughout the country 's colonial history , bolivia was known as ' upper peru ' , until after simon bolivar led the country to independence in 1825 , when it was named in his honor .
good ones include p thema , jona pani and medziphera .
shakespeare , hogarth , lenin and pepys have all had associations with clerkenwell and some of the old trades such as printing and clock making still survive .
the gaiety ands fervour of the festivel drives home the messege of unity , cutting across the barriers of caste , color and religion .
by train kumarghat , 140 km away , is the nearest rail station .
the followers dug into the rocks and carved out nearly 30 marvelous temples and dwelling hills over a period of more than 600 years .
grishneshwar mandir , rani ahilyabai holkar is said to have built this shiva temple in the 18th century in small village of grishneshwar , which lies west of the caves .
the first documented visit was by a u .s . citizen and fur trapper , john colter , who passed through montana with the lewis and clark expedition , then returned to explore the yellowstone country in 1807 .
certain climbs can often prove grueling and tough , but the magic of the beautiful landscape , the cool weather and pure air keeps the climber 's spirit up .
the island itself is generally rugged and mountainous with gravelly and sandy beaches to the south .
lines drawn tangential to each upright with the point of each tangent at the same height , will always intersect at a second point , which is exactly the point through which passes the flow resultant from the action of the wind on that part of the tower support situated above the two points in question .
laat bhairava is an image of bhairava carved on a pillar that is encased in copper and is covered with vermilion .
during the 'state of siege ' , political opponents were imprisoned ( and many of them ' disappeared ' ) , censorship was systematic and all non-government political activity banned .
support local businesses during your eco-travels to ensure maximum community and conservation benefit from your spending .
jakarta is a special territory enjoying the status of a province , consisting of greater jakarta , covering of 637.44 square km area .
the waterfall involves the fall of water from a height of 4 , 500 feet leading up to the diversion of the flow into five different water streams accompanied by the sounds of hollering and shouting tourists in a rain dance .
the 1st europeans where louis-joseph and francois verendrye who explored the area in 1743 while searching for a route to the pacific .
it has been declared a world heritage site by unesco .
changing money anywhere but at accredited bureau is illegal .
finally , after several official and unofficial u .s . military expeditions into the territory , spain formally ceded florida to the united states in 1821 , according to terms of the adams-onis treaty .
jaipur , popularly known as the pink city , is the capital of rajasthan state , india .
if brilliant colors and mirror work appeals to you , then the bright red and yellows of banni embroidery is what you should go for .
so come and explore the andhra pradesh , which , incidentally , drew 9.25 crore tourists during 2005-06. .
after oil was struck on this land , the osage became the wealthiest people per capita in the united states .
the challenge of the turbulent rivers is no less than that of the rigged mountains .
mcleodganj is culinary heaven for those who crave tibetan food , fill yourself to the brim with momos , noodles and thukpa at any of the restaurant that litter this colorful town .
this modern planetarium houses a fully computerized projector to depict the skies. it is situated at kotturpuram in the city .
one of the largest mosques in the world , the mecca masjid is said to accommodate upto 10 , 000 worshippers .
the glass house built on the lines of the crystal palace in london is the main attraction in this huge park .
at the city 's stock exchange , millionaires and paupers are made overnight and the sidewalks are crowded with vendors hawking everything from ballpoint pens to second hand mixies .
the core area called the `` island city `` has the most expensive real estate in all of india .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
you can call applique work , the french connection , though the once you visit the unassuming village of pipli , most closely associated with this in orissa , we doubt if those words will come to your mind .
from 1861-1865 ( civil war ) alabama saw 194 military land events and 8 naval engagements .
you can see the taj mahal from everywhere in the hotel oberoi amarvilas .
this festival held to commemorate the historical importance of the qutub minar , the festival showcases the best of indian music , dance and yes , food .
regulars prefer the wholesome thalis ; other favourites at adinarayan bhojanalaya are the stuffed calms and the fried or masala prawns .
an exciting sport is elephant polo which provides a spectacle for the audience and enjoyment to the participants .
bidriware uses black gunmetal etched with islamic designs in gold to create boxes , hookahs , samovars , wine jars and glasses ; jewellery and mementoes made of agate , amethysts and crystal found locally is another of the crafts aurangabad is famous for .
the bhandeshwar & sandeshwar temple were built by two brothers and are dedicated to jain teerthankar , parsvanathji .
india was once a collection of princely kingdoms mysore palace where feudal traditions still carry on amidst forts and palace hotels .
this huge temple is an interesting tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to kolkata , india .
in the second half of the l8th century and during the 19th century , the sentimental love song called the modinha was popular and it was sung both in brazil 's salons and at the portuguese court .
a party shall provide to a l.o./m.g. free of cost necessary equipment in order to enable him to perform his duties without any risk to his person .
the temple complex is surrounded by a fortified wall with eighteen gates .
standing testimony is the 17th century sea-side thellicherry fort built by the british , its ramparts still massive and seemingly impermeable .
you can choose between either the regular or valley view suites with verandahs in any one of three bungalows here .
the varaha temple houses an image of lord vishnu in the incarnation of a wild boar who came on earth to kill the demon hirnayaksh .
indian motor racing is roughly 50 years old and rallying 30 years .
the makrana marble used is of such a nature that it takes on incredibly subtle variations of tint and tone , according to the changes in the light , thus picturing the passing color of the moment .
its tower clock was once returned to england to be repaired under its lifetime guarantee , which up to now has already lasted hundreds of years .
although the main focus of her school is to teach nonya cuisine based on her grandmother 's traditional recipes , other classes such as french cuisine , home-style chinese and desserts are also taught .
during the war , indians who tried to remain neutral were attacked by confederate forces .
this is supposed to be the second longest beach in the world and runs to a length of 12 km .
some of the most popular temples in tamil nadu , india are : chidambaram , sri parthasarathy temple , kapaleeswarar temple , rameswaram , palaniandavar temple , kumari amman temple and the swamimalai .
the craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of indian handicrafts and artifacts .
in the words of grieson , `` for upwards of two thousand years , kashmir has been the home of sanskrit learning and from this small valley has issued masterpieces of history , poetry , romance , fable , and philosophy .
the province of ubon covers 15 , 517 square kilometers and is divided into the 25 districts .
national parks & monuments in arizona include canyon de chelly , casa grande ruins , chiricahua , hohokam pima , montezuma castle , navajo , organ pipe , petrified forest , pipe spring , rainbow , saguaro / sunset crater , tonto , tuzigoot , walnut canyon , wupatki , saguaro , grand canyon , and petrified forest .
chamba is one of the oldest princely states and dates back its origin to 6th century ad .
brenga , which is rice , meat and spices cooked in bamboo sticks , and watepa , which is rice and meat cooked in banana leaf , are both given distinctive taste by the way they are cooked .
in the month of ramzan the tomb celebrates urs , when groups of kawwali singers perform devotional sufi songs at the tomb .
the mehfil khana or the main hall of the dargah is the place where qawwalis are sung throughout the year .
in addition to natural attractions , a large number of human skeletons have been found in khao khanap nam .
the small park , next to the victoria tower end of the houses of parliament , offers a peaceful change from the bustling crowds outside parliament , and even noisier rabble within .
he spent several years in the south west of france , where he supervised work on the great railway bridge in bordeaux , and afterwards he set up in his own right in 1864 as a `` constructor `` , that is , as a business specializing in metal structural work .
each corner edge rests on its own supporting block , applying to it a pressure of 3 to 4 kilograms per square centimeter , and each block is joined to the others by walls .
a vibrant hub where travellers from all over the world meet , the flea market , known as ingo s saturday night market offerseverything from turkish hukahs and pashmina shawls , through rare sumerian beads and uncut gems to trance cds and g strings .
the resort , which consists of luxurious log hunts on stilts and tented cottages , has a forest as a backdrop .
most of them live on reservations such as rosebud , pine ridge , cheyenne river , and standing rock .
the city s patang bazaar sees brisk business as kites are brought in bulk , and the market remains open all day to satisfy the thousands who just can t get enough of this sport .
east java is located on the eastern part of java island and also includes madura and bawean islands .
these durries come in vibrant colours and bold geometric patters that can add cheer to any space instantly .
outside the museum is a botanical garden with exotic tropical trees .
it flourished during the 16th and 17th centuries when it became one of the finest cities in india and then waned during the 18th century , when the marathas challenged the might of the mughal empire .
it is possible to visit both these historical sites on a one day outing if you leave badami early enough in the morning .
there are k-2 ( 8 , 611 ) second only to everest , broad peak ( 8 , 047 metres ) gasherbrum-i ( 8 , 068 metres ) , gasherbrum-ii ( 8 , 035 metres .
the museum is open to the public from 10 : 30 am till 04 : 30 pm on all days except monday .
among the finest examples of some of the earliest buddhist architecture , cave paintings and sculptures , these caves comprise chaitya halls , or shrines dedicated to lord buddha and viharas or monasteries used by buddhist monks for meditation and the study of buddhist teachings .
according to legend the hindu deity lord shiva narrated the secret of creation to goddess parvati inside this cave .
foreigners entering india on a student , employment , research or missionary visa , which is valid for more than 180 days , are required to register with the foreigners officer under whose jurisdiction they propose to stay .
the fort also has miran saheb ki dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter .
jaipur remains the only place where the nine sectors that sub-divide the city symbolize the nine divisions of the universe .
this parsi family home specializes in the now rare gara saris , which were once worn extensively during parsi ceremonies and festivals .
the palace has sloping walls that give the impression as though they are swaying in the wind , huge and heavy stone arches support the ceiling inside the fort .
atop a granite hill , golconda has every reason to be proud it defied the mighty mughals for eight months before intrigue and betrayal led to its fall .
the people after a long time heaved a sigh of relief. from 1155 - 1339 , the kashmir rulers remained busy only in intrigues , debauchery , and mutual quarrels .
in the late 18th century , the town was plundered by ahmad shah durrani , to be rebuilt by the first sikh ruler of punjab , maharaja ranjit singh .
young horses are bought and reared in the hills .
mewar festival is one of the important festival of udaipur and held every year in the month of april .
the indian population was made up of several groups-primarily , the creek and the miccosukee people ; and many african american refugees lived with the indians .
this is when the dargah resonates with the uplifting strains of sufi music and the tabarukh , a sweet rice preparation that is sacred , is doled out all visitors .
at kaarigar haat you ll bump into artisans selling their creations , while meena bazaar gives you a feel of a real old village .
the island offers a wide selection of handicrafts made from wood , fiber and sea shells .
so strategic is its location at the cross roads of north and south india , that mohammedbin tughlak and aurangjeb , two powerful kings attempted to translocate their capital from delhi to aurangabad .
president 's house , this palace like building was build by the british with a blend of mughal and western culture .
from the sparkling , serene sands at ganpatipule and ratangiri to the little hamlets of chiplun .
for a carnival atmosphere and the joy of eating , or just for indore s famous sweets and lassi , an evening of chaat stall hopping at chhappan is your best bet .
according to legend the hindu deity lord shiva narrated the secret of creation to goddess parvati inside this cave .
to visit the fort , you will need to get permission from the commandant at the ordnance depot inside .
is 180 km northeast of agartala , where you see several gigantic , rockcut images of the hindu gods shiva and ganesha carved on a sheer hillside , dating back to the 8 th century .
jakarta 's architecture reflects to a large extent the influx of outside influences , which came and has remained in this vital seaport city .
arjan dev , who had compiled the adi granth or holy text of the sikhs , placed it in the temple precincts , which came to be known as the harmandir ( temple of god .
the landscape combines the raucous vivacity , the exquisite scenery the creaking ox carts and innocent tribal looks that will greet one everywhere .
these excavations together with detailed descriptions by ancient historians give us a fairly good idea about the shape and appearance of the mausoleum .
chiang mai s mountains create a multitude of streams and tributaries including mae chaem , mae ngat and mae klang .
when you are roaring around the bays , it s easy to forget that you re in the full force of the sun , so protect yourself beforehand .
from here one may branch towards the village of thame or continue on to take on of the two main khumbu routes , to gokyo lake or towards the everest base camp .
the best way to watch the birds of the kumarakom sanctuary is a boat trip round the islands .
routes should be carefully chosen , as some treks may be more difficult , or may involve high altitude trekking .
the good restaurants are all in the newer city areas to the north of the station .
among the most primitive forms of carnival , as celebrated in rio de janeiro , were the ranchos , solemn and romantic love stories acted out by dancers to the beat of a marching rhythm .
also try shikanji , the special thick creamy malwa milk drink flavored with almonds .
as i am , resident from chennai at south of india , i would like to elaborate its culture and business environment .
two princes-pho khun pha muang and pho khun bang klang hao combined their forces and fought the khmers who commanded an extensive empire throughout this part of the world .
khorat is most well known for silk weaving ( in pak thong chai ) and a variety of top-notch quality handicrafts such as clay pottery products of dan kwian .
after a day or two of revisiting history , head to diu for a relax beach break .
extending in a linear arrangement , the 34 caves contain buddhist chaityas , or halls of worship , and viharas , or monasteries , hindu and jain temples .
then , a tour to sikkim would reveal the presence of the graceful impeyan pheasant with its ecstatic and loud , electric blue plumage and none of them is lovelier .
as a result of the war of the pacific ( 1879-1883 ) , chile gained tarapaca , tacna and arica from bolivia , and took control of the atacama .
big ben is not open to the public .
the other sections of the museum include a portion devoted to natural history where stuffed birds and animals are in residence and a gallery on the independence movement with a good collection of photographs and historical documents .
most of the inexpensive budget accommodation is in taj ganj .
holiday packages on the houseboats , traditional kettuvalloms , an out-of-this-world experience at kumarakom .
the best time to buy these is winter , when kolkata s calendar is packed with handloom and handicrafts expo .
there are many attractions available in the sirmaur .
be sure you 're equipped with all the information you need and head straight for the sights .
the third one was designed by john rennie and built in 1832 by his son , after his death .
ganjam offers everything from traditional old jewellary of the royalty of yesteryear to the finest contemporary collections .
it developed into an important cantonment for the british troops stationed in the plains of north india .
lekkar bazaar is another chief draw for honeymooners in india with its wooden souvenirs and gift items specific to himachal pradesh .
apart from visiting waterfalls , adventurous visitors can trek to the peak of the phanom bencha mountain , which is 1 , 397 meters high .
home of the andes mountain range , it is a thin ribbon of land , 4 , 200km ( 2 , 610 miles ) long and nowhere more than 180km ( 115 miles ) wide .
jodhpur was founded in 1459 a.d. by rao jodha-chief of the rathore clan of rajputs who claimed to be descendants of rama - hero of the epic ' ramayana ' .
king rama iv decided to move tha thong city to ban don and required that it report directly to bangkoks administration .
the best choices for lunch are the jower roti and the raagi mudde ( raagi ball ) meals , unique to the southern districts .
it may have simple decor , but you ll find the best tibetan food in town at kunga .
the earliest reference to delhi as a settlement is made in the hindu epic , mahabharata , which states that the pandavas founded a city called indraprastha .
after his death , it is mostly the weak rulers except his grand son jayatida , who ruled the valley .
in resort hoka there are 10 charming yet spacious rooms , with attached bathrooms , each with its own verandah or sit-out. .
today , thousands of mexicans contribute to the seasonal migrant labor hired to gather and pack crops .
kewzing village homestay , immerse yourself in local culture at kewzing , a timeless bhutia village that rests against a backdrop of magnificent mountains .
the nilgiris in the south have the picturesque anantagiri , udhagamandalam , madikeri and munnar. mount abu in rajasthan , panchgani in madhya pradesh , mahabaleshwar in maharashtra are the other hill resorts for quiet sojourn .
since it is mainly a religious and trading town there are not many largescale industrial units here .
the tribal museum at silvassa circle , which offers an amazing insight into the life of the groups living in dadra & nagar haveli .
during the peak tourist season , in summer , prices of accommodation rise appreciably ; off season rates can be much lower .
until the war of 1982 , the rainy , windswept falkland islands were a forgotten remnant of the old british empire .
photography is also strictly forbidden and cameras can not even be taken inside .
it is believed that khwaja saheb had a vision of ajmer in a dream while in madina , and he also received the spiritual inspiration to come here .
during the annual feast ( 5th , 6th and 7th of may ) pilgrims from all parts of south india , irrespective of caste and creed , visit the church and seek the blessings of the saint .
phagli is also a predominantly agricultural festival and has its own folk traditions .
muzaffarabad : the capital of the azad jammu & kashmir is situated at the confluence of the jhelum & neelum rivers .
mandrain , the chienese restaruant , has been testing the tateduds of innumerable guests for the last 25 years .
i love the wonderfully fragrant mysore sandal soaps from mysore and old fascinating games like chausar and chaukobara from the crafts council of karnataka .
the canals and waterworks within the charbagh provide a grand reflection of the taj , further emphasizing the imagery of the paradise .
even once known , antarctica seemed inhospitable and incomprehensible and , in many ways , it still is .
places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include gulmarg in jammu and kashmir , auli in grawhal , kufri and narkanda in himachal pradesh .
for the white water rafting enthusiast , the early stages of the ganga offer the exhilarating alakananda and bhagirathi rivers .
the highest elevation is white butte in slope county at 3 , 506 feet while the lowest elevation is the red river in pembina county at 750 feet .
the overland party crossed through teton pass in 1811 en route to found astoria , oregon .
udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty , one of the famous city of rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts .
march to may ( warmest months ) , december to january ( coldest months ) , june to september ( rainy - southwest monsoon ) , november to december ( rainy - northeast monsoon ) are the best times to visit the bangalore .
the richest families turned to the one industry guaranteed to earn a comfortable living - - selling hides and tallow generated from the virtually free cattle that roamed vast ranchos .
as tarry night , the intoxicating scent of aromatic candles , the soothing strains of the saxophone it doesn t take more to make the perfect setting for a romantic evening .
in india too the movement is gathering momentum with more and more travel and travel related organizations are addressing the needs of the eco-tourists and promoting eco-tourism in the country .
it provides the sailor with a bird 's eye view of the place over which he or she is hovering .
there were political conflicts between the newly enfranchised black citizens who , for the first time , were allowed to hold seats in the legislature , and the prewar social structure , which sought to minimize the changes it had to accept in its traditional way of life .
france and spain both owned the area , though neither established a strong presence .
finish your meal with a hot cappuccino and a mouthwatering pastry from the restaurant s selection of sweet treats .
run by the state tourism board , each tent is spacious enough for a double bedroom , with an attached bathroom and a verandah where you will be close enough to hear the waterfall roaring and hissing as it plunges down .
lone star state , texas was named from the caddo indian word teysha , or tejas , which means `` hello friend .
they are fairly comfortable but it is advisable to carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers especially if you are looking at budget accommodation .
in fact mumbai is the very soul of human enterprise .
the rooms are simple but clean and cosy , and the meals , served in the family kitchen , are tasty and wholesome .
over the last few decades , thailand 's capital city , bangkok , has changed into a modern , exciting and sophisticated city .
the guests at the jungle lodge at , bheemeshwari , are also provided with a local guide or gillie who is adapt with the coracles , and can help beginners to make a catch .
one can see mud plastered houses with thached roofs , and spotted palias or totems depicting deities and heroes near their villages .
the river bhaga originates from bhaga glaciers glacier .
first explored for spain by hernando de soto , who discovered the mississippi river in 1540 , the region was later claimed by france .
cozy nook in palolem does a good job of living up to its name .
a journey through the hill resorts hills in arunachal pradesh of india promises a deep and refreshing communion with nature in its varying beauty .
banking hours usually are 10 am to 2 pm monday to friday and 10 am to 12 noon on saturdays .
the 10 day dussehra festival is one of the major attractions , culminating in the long procession of caparisoned elephants , liveried retainers , and cavalry .
other must buys include luscious pineapples , orange and black mushrooms .
green mansions is a place to embrass nature to trek , go for night safaries , bird watch , or canoe in the lake.camping is also an option .
this accidental discovery of capt. john smith was none other than the famous ajanta caves .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity vishveswara shiva .
noppharat thara beach , paved with tiny seashells , was formerly called `` hat khlong haeng `` , which means dried canal beach by locals , because the canal dries up during low tide and the area turns into a long beach .
the other version is that shiva ( the hindu god of destruction ) along with a crore of gods and goddesses were on a pilgrimage .
silchar railway station is well connected to mizoram along national highway 54 by buses and hired taxis .
following a major rebuild of the interior , the building reopened in 1997 renamed the international financial centre .
on a weekend , the majority of ancient streets ( which include part of the roman watling street ) are empty and silent .
now a national memorial and the best-known tourist spot in andamans , the cellular jail was once a house of horrors .
yogamagic canvas ecotel also has private open air showers and the eco toilets ( contribute to the compost proactively ! ) , live the simple life in style .
prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in brahmanical ( vedic ) and buddhist literatures .
the 18th century bharatpur bird sanctuary , which is also known as the keoladeo ghana national park .
a luxury jewellery brand that have won national and internation acclaim for excellence in jewellary design , ganjam has carved for itself a reputation of the finest craftsmanship for exquisite jewellary .
arguably the best japanese restaurant in delhi , sakura is the next best thing to dining in tokyo .
most of the temples located in the state of tamil nadu are dedicated to the hindu deities lord vishnu and lord shiva .
a must visit is phar borom that chaiya in which authentic srivijaya architecture is preserved in perfect condition , or wat phra kaeo ans wat hua wiang also in surat thani province srivijaya was a group of small communities scattered along the malay peninsula from sumatra in malaysia to the southern part of thailand from the 7th to the 13th century .
if you want to witness a living heritage preserved in its original form , come and visit orissa s tribal villages and be charmed with the rare mix of the simple and the exotic .
culture of the wall , unfolding a considerable part of chinese culture beyond the wall .
in addition , the presence of hill tribes and their wealth of unique cultures enhance chiang mai 's distinctive diversity .
to get the vital region in american hands , president thomas jefferson negotiated the louisiana purchase with napoleon .
it is one of the most spectacular and popular attractions in the world , drawing visitors from far and wide .
the heights of this quaint hill station in india are gifted with moist deciduous , wet evergreen forests , and grassy knolls .
adventure tourists may like to undertake winter trekking from november to march when the higher reaches of the district are snow clad and access to most of the villages is on foot .
mu ko hong is located at the edge of the than bok khorani national park , and is accessible by a 1-hour boat trip from ao nang .
originally known as mt. yishan it was renamed mt. huangshan in 747 ad in recognition of the legendary huang di , who was the reputed ancestor of the chinese people and who made magic pills for immortality here .
thomas stamford raffles was an important figure in bengkulu history , which in 1817 was appointed as a lieutenant-governor of bencoolen , the only territory in the area , which the dutch had never managed to bring under their control .
most white georgians are of british descent. the first settlers in georgia came mainly from england but also included some germans , austrians , and swiss .
in the big cities expect thorough professionalism when dealing with private companies and high ranking bureaucracy .
in case of sickness / injury of a l. o. / m . g. detailed by pakistan army , travel agency leader of a party shall immediately inform the nearest army formation / deputy commissioner .
give in to its allure , and have an enchanted stay .
from here you can pick up unusual bedcovers , table linen , saris and dupattas in the traditional black and red or earthy colors with eye-catching geometric and floral motifs .
national parks & monuments include big bend , big thicket , guadalupe mountains , alibates flint quarries .
in district udhamsingh nagar of u. p. hills is a place known as nanaksagar .
along with the modern day pubs , discos and hangouts , one can still see remnants of the older bangalore .
the island was a trading post of chudasasma rajput rulers of junagarh in the 12th century , before it was conquered by the relentless muhammad tughlaq in the 13th century , and ruled by the sultans if gujarat .
to the northeast of the railway station is the with a museum housed in the palace built by maharaja ranjit singh .
ajanta finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
the coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing , wind surfing , yachting , snorkeling and scuba diving .
tour to chail dharamshala , at an altitude of 4000 m above sea level , it is located on spur of dhaulandhar range .
the 18th century bharatpur bird sancttuary , which is also known as the keoladeo ghana national park , is famous as the most important bird breeding and feeding habitat of the world .
several religious , cultural and other programmes mark the 10-day-long celebrations , which fall generally in the months of september-october , depending on the auspicious days of the hindu calendar .
even as you tread the creaky bamboo bridge over the saltwater creak that connects mandrem beach to elsewhere , you will know that you wouldn t want to be anywhere else .
spain claimed and occupied california in the interest of increasing spanish and catholic influence .
in the royal greenwich observatory a simple line on the floor defines where east meets west and the prime meridian , a hypothetical line joining the north and south poles , also signifies greenwich mean time from which all other time zones are measured .
another property of the maharaja of tehri turned into a delightful resort by the neemrana group , the glasshouse lies inan orchard of litchis and mangoes and has its own beach for a dip in the ganga or for sunbathing .
this is broken down into 20 m ( 60 ft ) for the stepped podium , 12 m ( 38 ft ) for the colonnade , 7 m ( 22 ft ) for the pyramid , and 6 m ( 20 ft ) for the chariot statue at the top .
a history of more than 2000 years , some of the section of the great wall are now in ruins or even entirely disappeared .
there is also an old lighthouse which is greatly fascinating to visitors .
with the advent of the american revolution , british-inspired indian attacks continually plagued these pioneer settlements .
a massive structure in the shape of a four sided fort with circular bastions at each corner houses a temple of hanuman and is the most popular shrine in ayodhya .
it rose to prominence once again with the establishment of the textile industry and as gandhi s base for the nationalist movement for indian independence .
the old city of chiang mai with its fascinating indigenous cultural identity such as diverse dialects , cuisine , architecture , traditional values , festivals , handicrafts and classical dances is a prime location in its own right .
a herbal menu is served at the farm in support of the ayurveda therapy options offered in satya health farm , to cleanse the system of toxins .
a fantastic and unforgettable spectacle is the passage of the highway along the baltura glacier , rated among the worlds seventh largest .
the amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces , halls , stairways , pillared pavilions , gardens & temples .
it has one of the most important hindu temples in the world and yet urdu is as widely spoken and appreciated as the more indigenous telugu .
the great mughal emperor akbar commissioned the construction of the agra fort in 1565 a . d . , although additions were made till the time of his grandson shah jahan .
singapore took top spot as most affordable tourist shopping destination in asia pacific according to the results from a comparative study by euromonitor international on retail pricing in eight leading shopping destinations in the asia pacific region .
gilgit s most prominent contribution to the area seems to be the gilgiti cap worn throughout most of northern pakistan .
the courtyard of the alamgir dargah ( shrine ) is also the burial spot of the last great mughal emperor , aurangzeb .
indraprastha , according to legends , the city founded by the pandavas in the times of the epic mahabharata ( circa 1500 b.c. ) , was located near the old fort that stands on a large mound overlooking the river .
on the ancient island of pharos , now a promontory within the city of alexandria in egypt .
hope renewed by a new `` ghost dance `` religion was dashed with sitting bull 's death in 1890 and the subsequent wounded knee massacre .
it is believed that the great seer and philosopher , shankaracharya stayed here during his visit to srinagar in kashmir , india for the spread of the sanatan dharma .
the counterbalancing cabin was latched onto a set of cables linking to the master cabin over the top sheaves .
suitable in all weather as the boat has both covered and sun deck seating .
but for some reason - perhaps not to offer its vegetarian clientele the dish isn t listed in the menu. but go right ahead and order , you will love it .
cochin is now also an international gateway served by a few international airlines .
india travel destinations includes the tracks of motorcycle safari in india like ladakh , leh and foothills of himalayas .
it is prepared in two styles. the basic ingredient , peanuts , is either cooked with tender green vegetables of bamboo shoots. mild and easy on your stomach , this wholesome food can be found at most eateries and marketplaces in the state .
it is illegal to export objects over 100 years old ( sacred images , paintings , manuscripts ) that are valued for culture and religious reasons .
featuring the pagoda of phra boromathat chaiya , the seal is proof of the influence of mahayana buddhist on surat thani .
the camino real became a major trade route between parts of new mexico and mexico , introducing new foods and other cultural attributes to the area .
most geologists believe that the area known as phuket today was once a cape that extended into the andaman sea .
germans , swedes , and other groups from western europe were important components of the early settlement of kansas .
getting its name from the bamboo groves around it , bamboo resort is set on 3 acres of paddy fields in the picturesque farming village of sajong , just a half-hour drive from gangtok .
the best quality , without a doubt , is available at morena gajak bhandar in the naya sadak bazaar .
king ramkhamhaeng also promoted religion and culture , and through his efforts , buddhism progressed among the people .
payments have to be made using an electronic smartcard called the autopass card .
the restaurant upstairs is famed for its delicious tandoori fare , while the buzz in the basement holds jam sessions .
although the farm is only 2 bazaars , you will not know it relaxing under himalayn alders and magnolia trees .
discover the ancient roots of religion in these age-old cities. where religion is more than an act of worship : it is a way of life .
kolkata , as a honeymoon destination in india will regale honeymooners in india by the old world firangi buildings and the `` bhadra lok `` grace of kolkata , a much sought after honeymoon destination in india .
the first half of the nineteenth century was marked by the industrial revolution in europe , in which the expanding science of metallurgy played a primary role .
the temperatures in the area are extreme and there is large difference between lowest and highest temperatures during a day and monsoons do not penetrate this area .
the shaking minarets were damaged in the earthquake , but efforts are on to restore as much as is possible .
ko hai is small island has a long sandy beach in the east and unspoiled shallow water coral reefs at the beachfront .
the theatre royal on drury lane is an immense edifice and has the largest theatre auditorium in london .
you could arrange fun day trips or get away on a weekend .
there are tours running from the golden temple complex covering around amritsar , including those at gobindwala , tarn taran , baba bikala , buddha sahib , khadoor sahib , damdama sahib and chheharta .
pronounced ' hoe bern ' , this area is home to the distinctive inns of court : historic and beautiful sets of buildings where barristers have resided since the 13th century .
his reign witnessed a period of peace and consolidation and prosperity .
the haat sees a constant flux of indian handicrafts and artifacts every 15 days .
the assimilation of different styles has given the buildings within the fort a distinctive look .
the chamundeswari temple s tower is 40m high with seven storeys .
fulham broadway has become something of a haunt for people wanting a lively night out .
pfhidi-calhe , if you can manage to stomach the exotic , takes a deep breath and samples this hornet s larvae delicacy .
sualkuchi place is famous for producing golden silken thread .
for a royal culinary experience , book a table at the elegant silver saloon restaurant in the maharaja of gwalior s palaces , now turned into the plush usha kiran palace hotel .
a thick cloud of tar and coal smoke seized the throat , and we were deafened by the din of metal screaming beneath the hammer .
jodhpur is one of the most famous tourist places in rajasthan .
there are four stone temples in total that reflect the north indian rekha architectural style .
when whites violated an 1868 treaty by invading the sacred black hills in search of gold , war broke out .
ironically , some of the grand old buildings are now put to use for the somewhat drab purpose of administrative work , but surely the officials based here are not complaining .
nearby is a mosque with persian inscriptions and the tomb of amanat khan .
palace kawardha , set against scenic paddy fields and the maikal foothills , and surrounded by beautiful lawns , the italian marble-and-stone palace boasts grand staircase , large high-ceilinged rooms , and sweeping verandahs .
sriwijaya kingdom practiced a bustling and lucrative trade with ancient china its era of powerful dynasties and in 672 , the chinese scholar tsing recorded that a thousand monks and scholars could be seen translating and studying sanskrit in what is now become a regional capital of palembang .
a l.o./m.g. shall maintain discipline among the porters and shall avoid the situation of ill-will or dispute among them .
so whether you want to mingle with kings and queens or the latest pop stars , this is the place to go .
between 1900 and 1920 , a large number of basque immigrants came to idaho from the pyrenees to work as sheepherders .
considered the king of manipuri dishes , utti is a must-have on all occasions-festival , marriages etc .
a few days above lukla is the entrance to the sagarmatha national park and the town of namche bazaar , where most trekkers take a day to acclimatize to the high altitude .
owned by the wright s , a british family , the kipling camp in kanha is comfortably furnished with spacious verandahs where you can gaze into the surrounding seal forest and watch langurs and spotted and other animals amble by .
the hanuman temple at the top of jakhu hill is the highest point in shimla .
one of the legacies left behind by the british much like cricket and hockey is polo .
the burial chamber and the sarcophagus of white alabaster decorated with gold were located on the podium and surrounded by ionic columns .
situated 18 kilometers north-west of krabi , hat noppharat thara is in fact part of hat noppharat thara-mu ko phi phi national park and is the location of the park headquarters .
cosy candle lit interiors , scrumptious food , sparkling wine and the city s hip and happening crowd for company make f9 ( fusion 9 ) a must-visit. .
munnar being one of them needs to be rediscovered by nature lovers and seekers of freshest of natural flavors .
try doklai if you re brave ; it is pork brain , hot chillies and onions , all mixed and boiled. jado and domas , made of rice and meal with vegetables , are perfect for the less adventurous .
the structure was gradually erected as the bronze form was fortified with an iron and stone framework .
the emperor s simple plastered masonry tomb is located next to the dargah of the sufi saint and is remarkable in its austerity the simplicity reflects the life of the emperor , who paid for his grave in cash he collected from the sale of the skullcaps he hand stitched .
since 1912 , the mysore silk has grown from being a local craft to a global brand , known for its special luster and fine texture .
it was he , who recovered kashmir from utter political and economic disorder .
built and engineered by mr edoux , it consisted of one huge cabin for 110 passengers or a maximum weight of 8 tons and was propped up midway between the second and third levels on the pistons of two vertical hydraulic jacks , 81 meters long .
don t leave diu without trying the delicious handmade icecreams and shakes at this little place ; shri ram vijay ; near the main town square .
nebraska is located on north-central usa and is bordered by south dakota ( north ) , iowa ( east ) , missouri ( southeast ) , kansas ( south ) , colorado ( southwest ) and wyoming to the west .
these powers were gradually relaxed during the 1980s .
the durtlang hills , south of aizawl , are high ridges punctuated by small villages and christian convents .
isolated in time-wrap , yet reverberating with golden legacies of romance and valor .
for centuries , the silk route remained the main trading route between the south asia and the central asia .
nakki lake , is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills , beautiful parks and is a must visit place .
until now greenwich 's main claim to fame has been that the world sets its clocks by their time .
the dargah of sayeed burhanuddin is believed to be a repository of hair from the prophets beard , which increases in numbers over a period of time .
whenever there is talk of mughal cuisine , zarda always finds a mention .
the chief place of worship in ayodhya is the site of the ancient citadel of ramkot which stands on an elevated ground in the western part of the city .
come to bandhej for both traditional and fusion fashion all consistently understated and elegant .
the beaches of goa and kerala also offer other sporting opportunities like water skiing , wind surfing and sailing .
khajuraho as a key and attractive honeymoon destination in india is visual delight as far as the honeymooners in india are concerned .
it provides relevant information and booking for package tours of chithirapuram and its nearby sub-centers. .
built by qutub-ud-din aibek in 1199 , the qutub minar minaret stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters .
today , arizona is home to one of the largest indian populations in the u .s . , with twenty reservations hosting more than fourteen tribes , including navaho , mohave , apache , hopi , paiute , papago , pima , maricopa , yavapa , hualapai , and havasupai .
and the night sky is lit up with the twinkling of a myriad tiny paper lamps sent up on special kites .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to this marvelously natural and neanderthal hill station in india .
sing-ju is made of ngari ( fermented fish ) , cabbage. raw papaya. banana flower. umorok ( hot chilly ) , sesame seeds , and chick-peas. in some cases , you will find a few more vegetables in the list of ingredients .
it was moved to its present position in 1867 when the holborn viaduct was built .
national parks & monuments in south carolina include congaree swamp , fort moultrie , and fort sumter .
together , daman , diu and dadra & nagar haveli can be compared with the best that india has to offer .
as part of the louisiana purchase territory , missouri has belonged to three nations : france , spain and the united states .
both places have dining and boarding facilities for overnight stops .
permission to photography is subject to the conditions that a party shall supply to the government of pakistan , free of cost , and freight , one copy / print of a film of academic interest / commercial film made and one set of photographs taken .
the gleaming white domes , pillars and archways resemble the architectural pattern of mysore 's old palaces .
the 14th century hill-fort , kesroli is the oldest heritage site in india where you can stay .
the hindukush is also a mountain vastness containing hundreds of peaks , many above 7 , 000 metres including a trichmir 7 , 705 metre that is the highest point of the range .
in bomdila tawang and the nearby buddhist monastery , which is the largest in india are places worth a visit .
motorcycle safari in india not only enlists the speeding part of the machine but also the patience and balancing part of this facet of adventure tourism in india .
one of the oldest hotels in daman , miramar has lovely rooms featuring balconies that seamlessly blend the equally charming outdoors and indoors .
fortunately for the world , the game polo survived in a few remote mountainous enclaves of the subcontinent , notably gilgit , chitral , ladakh and manipur .
kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the durpin dara monastery .
agra is well connected by air with khajuraho , varanasi , and delhi .
the illinois country became a possession of virginia until 1787 when it joined the northwest territory under the government of the united states .
nepal has four climatic seasons ( a ) spring : march-may ( b ) summer : june-august ( c ) autumn : september-november ( d ) winter : december-february.the average temperature and rainfall records in kathmandu are presented hereunder .
in july of 1858 , william green russell , a georgia miner , discovered several hundred dollars worth of gold at the mouth of dry creek in the present-day denver suburb of englewood .
kolkata as an ideal honeymoon destination in india is revered and coveted mostly for its historical monuments dating back to 17th and 18th century , which abound in pomp and grandiosity for the benefit of honeymooners in india .
renowned artists are invited to come and perform in a night-long gala , open to the public .
in chicago in the united states , steel started to be employed to erect buildings of enormous height .
situated on the outskirts of the city , foy sagar , a picturesque lake is named after the engineer responsible for it construction .
good motorable roads connects silvassa with mumbai ( 168 km ) , daman ( 44 km ) , surat ( 129 km ) , and vadodara ( 269 km .
gen. alfred h. sully joined gen. henry h. sibley of minnesota in campaigns against the sioux in 1863-66. led by chief inkpaduta , the sioux were defeated in the battles of big mound ( kidder county , july 24-25 , 1863 ) , dead buffalo lake ( july 26 , 1863 ) , stony lake ( burleigh county , july 28 , 1863 ) , whitestone hill ( dickey county , september 3-5 , 1863 ) , and killdeer mountain ( dunn county , july 28-29 , 1864 .
with a collection of some deer species , leopards and the himalayan black bear , the park is a good place for a walk , though the wildlife is not too exciting .
the multicoloured patterns and motifs of this fabric are drawn from nature and can lure even the most jaded shopper int9o a buying spree .
the sky is a brilliant blue and the morning mists envelope the valleys between the hills presenting a visual treat .
the verandah in forest , restored by aman nath to its original splendour , is wonderful .
there are no rules banning non-hindus from the temple and allowed to join the queue for a glimpse of the deity .
built by the british , connaught place is quite close to the new delhi railway station and a unique shopping spot .
corbett national park is rightfully named after the man who was instrumental in its creation .
off the coasts of saurashtra , the island named diu is a treasure trove of portuguese monuments and pristine beaches ; it is ideal for those seeking a relaxed holiday of strolling and swimming .
6 kms. from patna is kumharar , where tourists can find remains of the ancient city of pataliputra .
the lower himalayan valleys of swat , kaghan and chitral in the hindukush range equally share the beauty and diverse culture of the northern pakistan .
vishakapatnam , which derives its name from vishka , the god of valor , is situated along the east coast on the bay of bengal .
nearest underground stop is hammersmith .
the coastal city of banten , 75 kilometers west of jakarta on the northern coast of java , was one of the asia 's largest cosmopolitan trading harbors in the 16th and 17th century .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
during your tours to historical monuments in mandu , india you can also visit the champa baodi that has a huge complex that has a complicated water system .
bangalore has some beautiful temples .
it tapers to a single room at the top , and is supported by columns with various designs .
this historic khanqah is a wooden building and is adorned with bells and carvings .
all festivals are jointly organised by the department of tourism , government of tamil nadu and ministry of tourism , government of india .
right from the beginning the popular success of the tower manifested itself in a multitude of varying forms : miniature models , bottles and candles , bracelet charms and watches , paper cutters and lamp stands .
barnes has been described as a place populated by country folk who ca n't quite let go of london .
brazil 's painters , sculptors , engravers and lithographers show their works both within brazil and in museums and galleries throughout the world .
the beach ( and hence the crowd ) is a short walk away , but on lazy days , you can lounge around the swimming pool or pamper yourself at the luxurious ayurvedic centre .
the use of iron in architecture spread widely , and became one of the most original and spectacular forms of creative expression of the nineteenth century , because of its lightness , its transparency and the elegant way it rises into the air , coupled with its brute strength , its restrained power and its extreme tautness .
another motorcycle safari in india , which also includes shangri la in its tour itinerary , is yet another part of the adventure tourism exercise in india .
a specially set up tented camp will serve as a temporary accommodation for pilgrims and tourists who are visiting amaravati to attend the kalachakra - a holy ceremony for world peace .
the paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of the buddha and various buddhist divinities .
there s bonus of discovering the tiny tribal villages around silvassa .
north park , panchkula , you may not have heard of this one , and the reason is that the few people who frequent this hotel keep it a well guarded secret , situated in an idyllic location , removed from the bustle of the city , this hotel , nestling unassumingly at the foothills of the shivalik range , is a charming and quite getway .
historical , biological and cultural conservation , preservation , sustainable development etc. are some of the fields closely related to eco-tourism. .
on the southeastern seaboard near the cambodian border , ko chang national park in trat province has more than 50 pristine islands ready to be ex-plored by sea canoe .
sir stamford raffles , who later found singapore , was lieutenant - government of bengkulu from 1818 to 1823 .
it was not long before the strategic location of the islands attracted the covetous eyes of the portuguese , who took control of diu in 1535 .
iowa is named for a native american tribe and is nicknamed for chief black hawk .
mumbai is also the country 's financial powerhouse , the nation 's industrial heartland , and its economic nerve centre .
the staff of tourist village , shivpuri is friendly , the service is efficient and the meal is surprisingly good .
the area covering regent 's park was formerly a church property called manor of tyburn .
if you 're lucky , you might just spot a 1935 jaguar convertible or even an 1898 humbrette .
the number of hispanics grew by nearly 70 percent and the group now accounts for 12.3 percent of the state 's population .
island water sports is a private water sports operator at port blair providing speed boats , jet skies , tube ride , wake board ride , knee board ride , etc .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
the apaches revolted against the spanish in 1676 , the pueblo in 1680 .
you 'll find elaborately fashioned jewellery , the multi-colored ' bandhini ' fabrics , richly decorated handlooms , and other trinkets at the colorful bazaars of jaipur .
the airport lies 10km to the northeast of the city ; auto rickshaws , taxis and tourist buses will take you to your hotel or the city centre .
the revenue produced from tourism helps and encourages governments to fund conservation projects and training programs .
13 km away from aurangabad lays one of the country 's most impressive and majestic forts daulatabad , commanding the view from atop a pyramid-shaped hilltop .
the most famous of these is the kangla fort in imphal , which contains the remains of bir tikendrajit , manipur s most celebrated martyr .
these include fragment of statues and many slabs of the frieze showing the battle between the greeks and the amazons .
the adhai din ka jhonpara mosque and taragarh fort are interesting historical monuments .
hotel kanha shyam , allahabad , is one of the most luxurious hotels in the city and is known mainly for two things : its brilliant location near the ganges and the delicious in house dining options .
on december 7 , 1887 , the joining of the major girders up to the first level was completed .
nearby are the durga bari and laxmi narayan bari temples , where the royals still celebrate durga puja with great fervour .
the total height of the building including the foundation base was about 117 m ( 384 ft ) , equivalent to a 40-story modern building .
the entrance to the main courtyard of the sugandhesa temple is right in the middle of the eastern wall of this temple 's peristyle that has two chambers .
however , some summers this area too gets unbearably dry and during these times the animals migrate to neighboring wetter mudumalai park .
big sky country , bonanza state and treasure state , montana is a latinized spanish word meaning `` mountainous `` .
hinduism and buddhism constitute two major religions of nepal .
sam sand dunes is one of the best nature 's gift to the human beings .
just like a gigantic dragon , the great wall winds up and down across deserts , grasslands , mountains and plateaus , stretching approximately 6 , 700 kilometers ( 4 , 163 miles ) from east to west of china .
the tower very soon became a favorite subject for painters , and contemporary artists continue to use it as their model .
pattaya 's name was originated from the march of phraya tak ( later known as king taksin the great ) and his followers from ayutthaya to chanthaburi just before the fall of the ayutthaya kingdom to the burmese invaders in 1767 .
its rich wild life reserves also make it a prominent hill station in india .
the road to kanyakumari is broad , airy and tree-lined , since it is a national highway , it is well-kept. .
indian airlines has regular flights to port blair , from calcutta and chennai .
brazilian culture is more than the simple result of specific contributions by europeans , africans and indians .
most outlets ( especially on the king 's road ) tend to be small , with smart fashionable bars and restaurants jostling for space in between .
what is little known is that sal butter , made by the gonds from the seeds of the sal tree , is used as an ingredient for international brands of chocolate .
the indigenous builders of the taj mahal fully understood the deceptive nature of the human eye .
more significantly , patna is a gateway to the budhist and jain pilgrim centers of vaishali , rajgir , nalanda , bodhgaya and pawapuri .
bangalore was founded by kempe gowda in the early 16th century .
you can also see ashes from roman london , which was burnt down in ad 61 by boudicca .
in 1805 the lewis and clark expedition explored the area. john jacob astor 's fur depot , astoria , was founded in 1811 .
designed by lt samuel russel , the british residency of hyderabad was built in 1806 and is one of the best examples of european architecture in india .
government guesthouse at drass lies in the middle of the most beautiful and unspoilt highland pasture .
yellow river bears special significance : the symbol of the chinese nation , the spirit of the chinese people and more importantly , civilization itself .
the present name of muzaffarabad has been given to it after the name of sultan muzaffar khan , a chief of bomba dynasty ( 1652 ) .
offering cooking demonstration and tasting classes to actual hands-on cooking classes , at-sunrice showcases the richness of asian cuisine through hands-on education , exposure and enjoyment .
the officer concerned in tourism division would furnish him ( the leader of party using treks in restricted area ) relevant information on matters like insurance , purchase of rations etc . , arrangement about special weather forecast by radio pakistan and other miscellaneous matters .
i think the heritage site at hampi , pattadakal , belur , halebid and many others rival the beauty of taj mahal .
the nrityagram celebrates the vasantha habba ( the spring ) every year .
chapada diamantina earns its place on the list of ecotourism musts in brazil , as it holds numerous natural records and monuments .
the most popular shrine at mathura is the dwarikadhish temple to the north of the town , dedicated to shri krishna .
the 1st european was spanish explorer francisco coronado who almost certainly crossed what is now oklahoma in 1541 during his search for the `` lost city of gold .
a broth-like concoction of meat and vegetables , bai is usually made by boiling spinach with pork and bamboo shoot. and peppered with herbs , string beans and edible ferns .
chakem is more popular in the hilly regions .
one could have taken them for blacksmiths contentedly beating out a rhythm on an anvil in some village forge , except that these smiths were not striking up and down vertically , but horizontally , and as with each blow came a shower of sparks , these black figures , appearing larger than life against the background of the open sky , looked as if they were reaping lightning bolts in the clouds .
stock up on plenty of the sweet stuff ( honey ) before checking the nearby spices markets for cardamom and pepper .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
a variety of kebab and innovative vegetarian dishes spice up the menu .
there are hotels , motels , tourist guesthouses and an mtdc resort .
presently man mahal is covered to rtdc sarvour tourist bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers .
fur hats were fashionable at that time , in northeastern cities , and oregon 's streams were an important source of beaver .
dont miss the ornate virupaksha temple , the mallikarjuna temple and the papanath temple .
ajmer remains the centre of many quality public schools in india to this day .
ooty still woos people from all over india as well as foreign countries right through summer , and sometimes in the winter months too .
centrally located in the western part of the state rajasthan , the jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces , forts & temples , worth visiting .
ko talabeng is a limestone island similar to ko phi phi le with numerous small and attractive beaches and caves that are clearly visible during low tide .
in addition , accommodations ranging from world-class resorts to tropical-style bungalows have warmly catered to the different needs of travelers .
there are plenty of middle of the road restaurants and cafes in ajmer that serve an eclectic mix of cuisines at modest prices in modest surroundings .
pick up a miniature taj mahal for a bit of kitsch or buy some marble trinket boxes as gifts .
the kaw indians were removed from their reservation in morris county to oklahoma territory in 1874 , thus opening this land for white settlement .
the unique characteristic of india is its unity in diversity although there are many cultures and religions and languages .
after the civil war , the federal government punished the five civilized tribes for siding with the confederacy by taking away the western part of indian territory , which would become oklahoma territory .
the bangalore aquarium is the second largest in the country .
in guajrat uttarayan is celebrated in the middle od january , and signifies the end of winter and comimg of spring .
the rtdc offices help with information , guides and paying guest accommodation .
delhi is the capital city and one of the largest cities in india .
if you leave out the milk and cream from sheerchai , it is called nunchi ( salty tea .
the thick growth of deodars , pine and red and pink rhododendrons can be seen all around the hill station .
the boating facility attracts native as well as foreign tourists here in mount abu .
a large number of people , many from outside the region have thus made the city their permanent home .
at the week of modern art held in sao paulo in 1922 , artists discussed their dissatisfactions with the academic world in all fields of the brazilian arts .
shawls are speciality of himachal pradesh .
tham khao phueng , group of 5 caves , which is approximately 3 kilometers from the park 's office , has sparkling white walls and countless stalagmites and stalactites of various shapes resembling mushrooms , pagodas and curtains .
on the other hand , the area to the south of the island ( phuket city today ) was developed and became a tin trading center .
you can t go to varanasi and not have the paan here .
la salle later claimed it for bourbon france and over the years louisiana was at one time or another subject to the union jack of great britain , the tricolor of napoleon , the lone star flag of the republic of west florida and the fifteen stars and stripes of the united states .
the battle of the little bighorn , probably the most famous battle of all of north america 's `` indian wars , `` was fought in southeastern montana in 1876 .
except maharastra no other coasting india offers you such a vast choice of majestic ports like khanderi , undheri , malvani , goa , murud , sindhudurg and suvarnadurg .
the skin is cleaned and roasted over a fire , then immediately soaked in water , rinsed and cooked till tender .
you can instead , go for the andhra breakfast , a fairy recent addition , binge on kheema or egg dosas and appams with kodi pulusu ( chicken curry ) and mamsam pulusu ( mutton curry .
the washita massacre was the last major confrontation between whites and indians in oklahoma .
tham phet cave is 3 kilometers from the ao luk nua market intersection , however , the best way to get there is to contact the national park office at than bok khorani and ask for a local guide .
the church has an impressive whitewashed facade , but the real beauty lies in its interiors the richly decorated wood paneled hall has a superbly carved balcony projecting along one of the walls , and in front has an ornamental gilded baroque alter .
hindu and buddhist temples , shrines , monasteris and religious sacred places along the trekking routes enable to give more than insight into the spiritual life and history of nepal and will remain a memorable experience in life .
the curvature of the uprights is mathematically determined to offer the most efficient wind resistance possible .
singapore was the only country to receive two royal institute of british architects ( riba ) worldwide awards for its new arts venue , the esplanade - theatres on the bay , and the 56-apartment lincoln modern which features split-level accommodation .
brazil is south america 's biggest and most influential country and takes up almost half the continent .
they are a treasure trove of surprises and can be more fun exploring than the city 's fancier establishments .
directly outside his windows there were 39 steps leading from the patio to the lawn ! the room that houses the actual clock mechanism is full of victorian mechanical wonders that whiz and band each time the clock strikes .
under aurangzeb , aurangabad became the seat of the powerful mughal empire for a short while .
banking in punjab is becoming easier .
the pomfret masala and the spicy prawns are especially mouthwatering .
later on bossa nova became a trademark of a new concept of music - a little sad , sometimes sung off-key , and where the lyrics have great importance .
the robe of the prophet , which is considered an important relic lies here and revealed to the public once a year , on the 12th day of the islamic month of rabi-ul-awwal. .
when it comes to bright and festive , bagh embroidery is a close second to punjab s famous phulkari embroidery .
a cheaper mode of travel in the city would be a cycle rickshaw .
in bangalore , mtr may be the best known dosa place , but many refer vidyarthi bhawan .
the architectural style of this ancient temple is an example of the oriyan style of architecture .
arunachal pradesh is a dreamy , misty land nestled in the middle of ancient tribal lands and cultures .
nepal time is 5 hours 45 minutes ahead of gmt and 15 minutes ahead of indian standard time .
a welcome heritage hotel , winamere is situated on historic observatory hill in darjeeling .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
honeymooners in india can avail of honeymoon hotels in chennai with the way being led by names of the order of the taj coromandel hotel , the chola sheraton hotel , fisherman 's clove hotel and le meridian hotel to name a few trail blazers in the local hospitability industry as the most sought after of honeymoon hotels in chennai .
oklahoma territory and indian territory were united under america on november 16 , 1907 .
you must try dara , the local fish made in fiery curry and tari , an effective palm wine while you are in daman .
splendidly chic boutiques , exquisite antiques shops and hundreds of charming eighteenth and nineteenth century houses make chelsea one of the most desirable areas in london .
the explorers lewis and clark wintered with the mandans during their expedition of 1804-06. .
the town as we see today , however came into its own only in 8th century ad , when the most famous of the chavda rajput vanraj chavada mase it his capital according the legend , the king named the town after his friend and general champaraj .
kanchenjunga might reveal herself from under a veil of clouds .
ajanta unfinished caves are unfinished monasteries of the second phase of excavation .
domestic tourists require an inner line permit to travel to mizoram , which can be obtained from the mizo liaison officer at delhi , calcutta , guwahati or shillong .
a slightly different version is the talapatrachitra , or palm leaf engravings .
situated on the banks of the ganga , bithoor is of considerable historical and religious importance .
the city of mathura , in uttar pradesh , the nucleus of brajbhoomi , is located at a distance of 145 km south - east of delhi and 58 km north-west of agra .
the haat , is an ambitious and highly successful project by delhi tourism .
the rabindra gallery contains paintings and manuscripts of the great man of letters .
on the eve of the lossar festival , the stylished chhaam dance , often called the devil dance , is performed .
the best time to visit namtok khlong thom is from 7.00 a.m. to 8.00 a.m. and from 4.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. .
jaipur is 260 km from delhi and 240 km from agra and forms the most chosen tourism golden triangle of delhi , agra and jaipur .
the jal mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties .
other festivities are also visual feasts for the admiring travelers with a yen for folklore , details and legend .
many trekkers walk in from the roadhead at jiri , through the lovely rolling hills of the solu region .
the deity is a massive 15-foot basava or bull , which was believed to have been the vehicle of lord shiva .
the urs or annual pilgrimage of the devout is celebrated each may at the dargah with millions of pilgrims arriving in ajmer to pay homage .
the palace complex was completed fourteen years later in 1420 .
the region was ruled by spain until mexico won its independence in 1821 and then mexico ruled it until 1848 .
his court was a centre of luxury and splendor .
a small museum displays photographs and other antiques of the britishers , relevant to these islands .
as its name suggests , the centre point hotel lies in the heart of down , and is one of the best hotels on offer here. it has 25 rooms and suites , and a very popular restaurant and bakery .
situated on one of the important offshoots of the karakoram highway , malam jabba is 314 km from islamabad and 51 km from saidu sharif airport on saidu sharif-kalam road. the road diverts right from manglor to malam jabba .
most famous is ao phang-nga national park , a geological wonder filled with islets , sunken caverns and startling rock formations rising sheer out of the sea .
august is high season in canoa quebrada , when the town quickly fills up with european tourists .
not forget the heavenly malai ka paan in lucknow .
every man in this kuchipudi village can dance , they say , as a tribute , perhaps , to siddhendra yogi and the dance from he conceived of and nurtured in this place .
the vibrant and fun filled marwar festival is held annually and is a celebration that brings to life the essence of all that rajasthan stands for .
india travel destinations , the tour guide arranges for these tours to these much-coveted honeymoon hotels in chennai .
said to have an instant revitalizing effect , magically banishing fatigue , this wholesome snack is worthy trying also because of its unque taste - a bit like a pakora but not quite .
the city preserves remnants from the age of the zamorin , such as the mananchiri tank and the jama atpali and mucchandipalli mosques .
a tour to chithirapuram reveals the hill station to be a sleepy little folksy , congregation of nature 's delights .
the embroidery of rabaris is inlaid with triangular square and almond shaped mirrors , which lends it that gorgeous richness .
along the yellow river , there are dozens of worthwhile attractions. they are stretching arms and waiting for your visiting .
from ajmer the nearest airport is jaipur which is 135kms away .
hyderabadi cuisine is all nizami delicately flavored and predominantly non vegetarian , while the rest of andhra pradesh relishes a variety of vegetarian dishes .
the historicity of the nagaur city can be traced back to 4th century ad .
the airport is 5 km away from agartala city and taxis and autos transport you to the city .
in an area of 1 , 500 square meters ( 1 , 800 square yards ) , simple but majestic shengdi and doumu halls , yuhuang , wenchang and shengdi pavilions are really elaborate works and masterpieces of taoist architctures .
there are also steeply sloping reef walls , and coral pinnacles or knolls .
the lalbagh botanical garden , spread over 240 acres , was laid by hyder ali and developed by tipu sultan .
the last hindu ruler of kashmir was udyan dev .
the ambience reflects a typical gujarat village , the food is traditional , the crockery consists of leaf , plates and earthenware cups , the seating is rustic and the entertainment is ethnic ! but within the city , food choices range from multi cuisine restaurants serving a variety of asian cuisines , american style fast food snack bars and cafes , no frill reasonably priced restaurants serving typical gujarati , south and north indian cuisines .
common & most popular motorbike safari circuits are in north combining , rajasthan , madhya pradesh , uttar pradeshin south combining , tamil nadu , kerala , & karnataka .
car and bike enthusiasts yearning for more adventure started setting off to cross country expeditions .
a new project is currently being developed by the park administration which will facilitate adventure sports such as hiking , rafting , canyoning , canoeing , boia-cross , and camping .
dense forests cover more than 50 percent of chhattisgarh , india s ninth largest state , with an area of 1 , 36 , 000 sq km .
in almora , located in one of the most picturesque spots in the area , kalmatia sangam himalayan resort is among the classiest in the state .
panipat is often referred to as the handloom capital of india , and you can browse for a wide range durries and carpets .
bairath is an important historical place with the excavated remains of a circular buddhist temple - unique in rajasthani and the earliest known temple in india .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity , lord rama .
it s even won an intach award for being admirably well-preserved the building dates back to the 1930s .
dhruva teela , this marks the place where the child dhruva meditated single mindedly as he stood on one leg .
in the neighbouring town of congonhas do campo , at the church of bom jesus de matosinhos , aleijadinho sculpted 12 life-sized soapstone statues of the prophets and placed them on the terrace and staircase outside the entrance .
kozhikode is the historic spot where vasco da gama found india , the land of spices , as he landed on the nearby kappad beach in 1498 .
karakoram is specially characterized by its fissured rocks , gendarme like vertical features and steep slopes presenting great challenge to climbers and adventure seekers .
jodhpur , 80 km from khimsar , is the largest city in the entire marwar region .
bangalore has seen a major technology boom and is now home to more than 250 high-tech companies , including homegrown giants like wipro and infosys .
the mughal court moved to aurangabad and remained there till his death .
andhra pradesh is above all a cheerful mix of many things nice .
go fishing or boating in the river , and take along a picnic badket .
a wide and straight road , it is at its best when being used for royal ceremonies , when union jacks or the national flags of visiting heads of state are flown from flagpoles , along the length of the road .
hat noppharat thara ( noppharat thara beach ) is located 6 kilometers from ao nang is a famous 3-kilometer long white sandy beach lined with dense casuarinas and coconut groves .
chennai is a gracious city that has a clear skyline , longest sandy beaches , parks , historic landmarks and tourist infrastructure facilities which make it a convenient entry point or base to start a tour of tamil nadu and south india .
as the crowds only get in at the evening for horseback riding , camel rides and other sundry amusements .
dine on the finest food in the lap of nature , quite literally , that s because the decore of zafraan laguna , the month old restaurant from the zafraan stable , boasts of more than 100 plants and 400 fishes .
during the monsoons when the ganga floods its banks , the temple gets submerged .
tour guides , apparently persuaded by the ' persistence pays ' philosophy , will swarm forth to greet you at the bus stop and getting them to let you go can turn into quite a test .
when in tura , try the typical garo fare fare on offer : kappa , made from dried fish and pork , beef and liver , is a meat-lover s delight .
ahir embroiders create geometric and floral motifs interspersed with striking mirror work , the jaths use chainstitch with tiny mirrors , the sodha rajputs are skilled in delicate soof embroidery , while the hali putras and rasipotra herds people produce mukka embroidery .
in fact your temple tours to this region can be the most interesting experience ever simply because of the fact that a lot of people have not yet discovered the tourist attractions of bihar , india , though the region has a lot of visitors from foreign lands .
there are a number of ways to get around the city .
spaniards hoped to reestablish themselves through exploration of the northwest. in 1775 spaniards bruno heceta and juan de la bodega y quadra sent an expedition to near present-day point grenville and claimed the land in the name of the king of spain .
the andamans have some fascinating underwater marine life , varieties of colorful fishes , shipwrecks and exotic coral reefs .
lush green well maintained lawns , rare tree species , a 20 million year old fossilized tree , an italian-style garden bordering a clear pool , a vast variety of flowering bushes and plants in myriad hues , fern house with a vast range of ferns and orchids , are some of the many highlights of this garden .
even today , the royal family continues to reside at the palace of hua hin for part of the year .
the first is the water gate and the wharf , where shen 's family moored boats and washed clothes .
there are also carvings of the god in the ardhanarishvara form where he is depicted as half man - half woman , the woman half representing his wife parvati .
the indian archaeologists have salvaged the precious ruins from their ancient site , lifting them atop a hill and setting them up in a vihara style museum .
aurangzeb , the last great mughal emperor took over this city in 1653 and renamed it aurangabad .
missouri was plagued with lawlessness during and after the war , but became more urbanized and industrialized and less southern as railroads tied it more closely to the east and north .
visitors are allowed to see the ashokan pillar and saraswati kup , a well , said to be the source of the saraswati river and jodhabai palace .
matches are usually organized in the winter season , details of which can be obtained from local dailies or race courses .
acquired by u .s . most of present north dakota was acquired from france through the louisiana purchase in 1803 .
when georgia s independence from british rule was declared in january of 1776 , an executive council was elected , and the revolutionary state government made savannah its capital .
the terrain is mainly comprised of jungles and mountains , which are home to the hill tribes .
the dense forest which cover these islands and the innumerable exotic flowers and birds create a highly poetic and romantic atmosphere .
a 3 , 500 km long and a towering 8 , 848 meter high divine legend garland india and the subcontinent .
resorts tucked deep inside jungles of karnataka , house-boats of kerala , and tree houses at vythiri combine to make india one of the most diverse eco-tourism destinations on the planet .
souza lobo s been around since 1932 and is run by judd lob , the founder s great grandson , and the keeper of an enviable cache of secret recipes .
indian airlines has a daily flight from calcutta , tezpur and jorhat ; on monday , thursday , friday and sunday from guwahati ; one daily from dibrugarh ; and a flight on tuesday , wednesday and saturday from tezpur .
the question of supply of kit / equipment to m.g. would be settled between party and the sponsoring agency .
separating the two river systems which drain from these valleys is the hindu raj range , a chain of mountains which forms one of the sharpest cultural boundaries in the world : the cultural line between central and northern asia .
taman fatahillah restoration project , begun in the early 1970s has restored one of the oldest sections of jakarta also known as old batavia to approximately its original state .
albert hall was designed by sir swinton jacob and opened in 1887 as a public museum .
kamat lokaruchi is the most popular rest stop for anyone traveling the bangalore mysore stretch .
but then again , like the rest of india , there are festivals that are celebrated by all , regardless of one 's own religion .
a ride on the famous narrow gauge toy train , which has been declared a world heritage site , will show off its landscape at its best .
cast iron made its debut in the construction industry in 1779 with the bridge at coalbrookdale in england , followed in 1803 by the pont des arts bridge in paris .
covent garden grill ( as the name suggests ) is in london 's covent garden and less than 10 minutes stroll from the london eye .
the namtok hin phoeng waterfall is situated 25 kilometers from khlong thom district and can be reached by driving along highway no. 4 ( krabi-trang ) , turning left at khlong phon market and proceeding for another 8 kilometers .
besides the historic sights , the local folklore , traditions and legends of this water township , such as the dragon boat race , the granny tea or the wansan home-style banquet which are formed from the immemorial civilization and history are also the indispensable elements for an unforgettable tour .
believe the hype uttar pradesh is full of irresistible textiles and crafts .
allahabad one of the oldest cities of india and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the kumbh and ardh kumbh melas held every twelve and six years respectively .
perched on observatory hill , it offers a spectacular view ; watch the winding roads , or glimpse the kanchenjunga from your bathtub .
asian readers of time magazine have again voted singapore as their favourite business city announced on 5 dec 2005 .
they disassembled the remains of the broken colossus and sold them to a jew from syria .
arizona s clean , clear , dry air and warm weather attracts older people looking for a retirement home as well as people with respiratory health problems .
the magnolia state , bayou state , eagle state and border-eagle state , mud-cat state , mississippi was after the mississippi river , whose chippewa indian name means `` large river .
must tries are thukpa , the roasted barley flour called ngampe , and skyu , a pasta type dish with root vegetables .
there are two forts , namely , red & black fort , situated on the opposite sides of river neelum .
almost every house in the valley possesses a loom , so if you walk around a bit , might strike a good bargain with a weaver .
regular beach items such as goods fashioned out of sea shells and oysters that make foe colorful decoration pieces are available at devka beach , nani daman .
another impressive temple is the gavi gangadhareswara temple , an unusual cave temple .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
whether it 's about a nature camp or organizing trekking trips towards the unspoilt and inaccessible regions , one should always keep in mind not to create any mishap or disturbance in the life cycle of nature .
the tourism dadra & nagar haveli has already begun to take off in a really big way , and one can only hope that it won t lose any of its serene , laidback charm .
near the old city of bhopal , filfora is a tiny restaurant in koh-e-fiza. .
kullu is the second portion of kangra , and the beas here flows amidst broad cultivated terraces , about 1 , 000 meters ( 3 , 281 ft ) above sea level .
the museum also exhibits ancient coins , traditional rajasthani miniature paintings and works of some modern artists including jamini roy and nicholas roerich .
saraswati festival also known as dussehra or navaratri , this festival is held between september and october .
swaswara resort , perched on a cliff overlooking gokarna s om beach , is a resting place for the mind .
a fabulous sita ram temple in the palace attracts number of devotees , especially during ramnavami .
bihar has an extremely rich cultural background and has been an important center of study and learning in the olden times and has been the seat of buddhist learning in the ancient past .
compared to the average national population growth amounted to 2.144 % per year ; this province was on the higher level with 3.42 % per year in the 1990-1994. .
the british continued to control what is now illinois until 1778 when george rogers clark , a revolutionary war hero , and his band of american colonists captured fort kaskaskia .
pattadakal , half an hour from badami , is a little village now but it was at one time the second most important city of the chalukyas and the site of royal ceremonies like coronations .
tirupati is famous for the shrine on the 'seven hills ' of tirumala which attract millions of pilgrims from all over india .
london has the gift for creating cities within a city , which is why it does n't really need a mayor .
there is an army cantonment on the northwestern side of the city .
ecuador ( including the ancient kingdom of quito , established by the shiris ) was populated by several mutually antagonistic tribes at the time of the inca conquest in the mid 15th century .
the french controlled areas along the mississippi river valley in the american bottoms between cahokia and kaskaskia .
however , the name big ben has now passed into every day use and the locals call it big ben so we 'll go along with that too .
located in the southern-most rim of the shout china sea , close to one of the world 's busiest shipping lanes linking the far east with europe , the region 's historical background is rich and colorful .
even though it s one of the most popular destinations in india , it is still possible to make it your own .
air-conditioned buses from north and west points of palembang are also regulary available , as well as the major cities in java and bali .
the civil war began in 1861 as south carolina troops fired on federal fort sumter in charleston harbor , and the state was the first to secede from the union .
ahmedabad offers a culinary experience par excellence to first time visitors at the open-air village restaurant outside the city .
come and visit us , respond to the call of the valley .
journalist emile goudeau describes the spectacle visiting the construction site at the beginning of 1889 .
you will find angular patterns and a generous does of green-what else do you expect with that name .
on all the ten days , the mysore palace is illuminated and renowned musicians of the state and outside give performances in front of the palace .
there are 15 dive sites off of ao nang , all reachable with a 20 to 60-minute boat ride. for experienced divers there is a 50-meter long cave at 5-12 meters depth at yawabon island behind poda .
many early railroads received land grants from the state and federal governments to offset the cost of construction .
the hindu temples of ellora built by the kings of the satvahana and rashtrakuta dynasties predate the influx of buddhism strategically located in the centre of india , the region was considered the safest from the marauding armies of the afghan and central asian raiders .
make gangtok your base-it s a town straight out of picture books , with thin flames of prayer wheels in the hands of lamas , and streets lined with bright pagoda roofed houses , rage of mist and cloud floating above them .
the land of the tiger and the elephant , the peacock and the rhinoceros , tiger at corbett park india 's wildlife is a delight for the nature lover .
kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctuary supports a rich wildlife such as the panther , sloth bear , wild boar , scientifically bred crocodiles and the four horned antelope .
this temple was constructed sometime in the year 1929 a.d. .
by road you can drive into amritsar from neighboring states .
referred to as the great marble temple , or temple d , it was sponsored by the lydian king croesus and was designed by the greek architect chersiphron .
the innermost sanctum inside the chidambaram nataraja temple has idols of lord shiva and goddess parvati .
however , if you are picky about what you eat , then it s a good idea to pack some supplies .
for two hundred years , it was the capital of a muslim dynasty that ruled over a populace that was predominantly hindu .
the majestic ashoka pillar records visit of emperor ashoka to sarnath .
historically this was the main centre for the maratha empire , which defied the mughals for so long , and which , under the fearless rule of shivaji , carved out a large part of central india as its domain .
this is the fifth year running that singapore has clinched the accolade .
the bakranath temple located at bakreswar in west bengal , india .
numerous poets , songs and stories about milou tower are wide spread and make it more charming .
the ruins of raj on this ross island bear testimony to the atrocities committed by the british in this erstwhile penal colony .
a procession with a horse , on whose bamk it is believed lord triloknath sits , is carried out through the town .
the maharaja palace is of harmonious synthesis of the hindu and saracenic styles of acrhitecture with archways , domes , turrets , colonnades and sculptures which are magnificent .
hyderabad and secuunderabad are dotted with pearl traders selling strands of loose pearls as well as readymade and custom made jewellery .
the name ban don was , at the time , changed to kanchanadit .
tree-lined streets and abundant greenery made bangalore the ' garden city ' of india .
one of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of jaisalmer , lodurva is known for the famous jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year .
rishabhadeo jain temple , brahma kund , amawan temple , tulsi chaura , laxman quila , angad tila , shri rama janaki birla temple , tulsi smarak bhawan , ram ki paidi , kaleramji ka mandir , datuvan kund , janki mahal , gurudwara brahma kund , ram katha museum , valmiki ramayan bhawan , are places of interest in ayodhya .
nourishment for the body is as tempting as that for the soul with a selection of fresh seafood , prepared with produce from the area s farms .
glenburn tea estate , the path to this tea eatate might challenge a mountain goat , but no one s complaining .
eiffel had not foreseen that this materialization of an artistic vision could become the world famous emblem of a city like paris , unique in its exceptional size but reducible and reproducible ad infinitum .
the low-land terai oceupies about 17 percent of the total land area of the country .
today , manufacturing is the state 's largest employer , based largely on resources found in south carolina .
large-scale coal mining in eastern kentucky 's mountains began in the early 1900s as the railroads penetrated previously isolated areas .
it was he , who finally broke the power of arabs in sindh .
milk sweets simmered in large works for hours and then rolled in dry fruits and flavored with cardamom .
it is famous for its beautiful paithani silk saris , adorned with intricate zari ( gold embroidered ) borders .
to trek , one does not have to be brave , a mountaineer nor an athlete. anyone who is sound and healthy with the spirit for adventure to explore the exotic , will enjoy the thrills of trekking in the hills of nepal .
you get the full impact of this impressive structure from boats on the river .
ao nang has recently emerged as a 5-star tourist attraction due to its numerous 4-5 star hotels and boutique resorts complete with facilities such as diving shops and rental boats .
there is the bonus of the viewing the magnificent sand bars that connects the twin islands of ross and smith .
fur trading played an important role in nebraska s pre-territorial history .
world famous institutions like indian institute of technology , anna university is here .
there is a special provision of tourist police unit to deal with the problems of tourists for assistance one can contact the department of the tourism , bhrikutimandap for the services of tourist police .
the temple was decorated with bronze statues sculpted by the most skilled artists of their time : pheidias , polycleitus , kresilas , and phradmon .
it is a veritable treasure house of buddhist sculptures .
this long island between sumbawa and timor is crowded with volcanoes and mountains dividing it into several distinct regions with individual languages and traditions .
african american citizens , joined by governor leroy collins and other white supporters , fought to end racial discrimination in schools and other institutions .
major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops .
this challenging and memorable activity takes at least 3 days and passes streams , waterfalls , caves and view points on high cliffs .
fur trappers and traders began working their trade in the rocky mountains .
the earlier styles are well represented in the gandar , ladkhan , hucchapaya and kontigudi temple complexes , while the jain meguti temple and the impressive 7th century durga temple are samples from a later date .
in 1889 the tower was a colossal fairground attraction , but during the 1920s it became a symbol of modernity and the avant-garde , inspiring poets such as guillaume apollinaire , film-makers , photographers and numerous painters .
this synthesis of society and culture is evident in the buildings of the fort .
preserving the flavour of a bygone era , with no televisions or air conditioners , the large high ceilinged rooms are tastefully decorated with period furniture .
it is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer , receive favors and feel amply gratified .
the napo , galeras , cutucu , and condor ranges are located here .
whites make up 86.6 percent of the population while asians are 3 percent percent .
srirangapatna s mausoleum , the gumbaz , which sports ivory inlaid doors and the famous tiger-striped emblem , is also nearby .
the main stupa uncovered in these remains depicts a circular plinth , with moulding. the diameter is 13.01 meters ; the maximum surviving height is 1.50 meters. the lower wall curves gently inwards and there is a small projection that steps out a short distance at the base of the actual stupa .
amboli is 549 km from mumbai and 390 km from pune .
although no longer the seat of power it once was , descendants of the royal houses of solo are regarded as leaders of , javanese culture and traditions , upholding standards of sophistication and conduct .
he instructed his son and successor guru arjan dev to construct a temple at the site , which would be the focus of the sikh religion .
shimla the summer capital of india before independence is now the capital of himachal pradesh .
given the height of the statue and the width of the harbor mouth , this picture is rather impossible than improbable .
ahmedabad also has exchange bureaus where you can exchange money ; most big branches of indian banks will exchange money and cash traveler s cheques .
there is also a one-hour commentary for each scene , along with a light and sound show .
temple at somnathpur is embellished with a profusion of finely sculpted friezes and panels .
show me state , bullion state , lead state , cave state , ozark state , missouri was named after the missouri river , which was named for the missouri indians meaning `` canoe haver .
jaipur is surrounded by hills and dotted with forts , and is one of the links to the famed golden triangle of north india along with delhi and agra .
apart from the delectable food , the sunday brunch at la piazza stylish eatery also packs in a huge amount of snob appeal .
these churches are resplendent in their classical elegance and fine internal furnishings .
most major credit cards are accepted and you may be required to leave a credit card imprint or number upon check-in. .
for crunchy fried bliss , beef or pork skin wafers are perfection itself .
when it comes to the complete synchronization of the sentiment of the place and the mood of the travelers then , khajuraho wins hands down with the honeymooners in india .
as the capital city , jakarta is a melting pot of representatives from each of these ethnic groups .
presently , motor sport includes activities like autocross , motocross , drag racing , motor gymkhana , treasure hunts and precise family rallies .
in the field of philosophy kashmir 's contribution is the `` shiva school of thought `` , which assumed a distinctive character in the valley .
to do justice to the menu , stick to one cuisine for each course .
beside trading of horse camels , cows and bulls , there are exciting camelcart races and cultural cents , clothes household items and leather goods are for sale during the fair on the full moon of kartik , pilgrims take a holy dip in the lake .
once the largest princely state in india , hyderabad had its own flag , currency , railway , and postal system , before being incorporated into the indian nation .
it has a distinctive hill station character with traditional carved wooden facades on buildings and shops at ground level .
what s more surprising is that those followers achieved this rare feat with just the help of few mallets and chisels .
even the locals get lost , so allow plenty of time to navigate .
depending on your interests , different seasons will be perceived as more ideal than others to make this venture .
if malam jabba and its surroundings have already began to charm you , then you must visit these places and experience the enchantment for yourself .
an equestrian statue of chhatrapati shivaji and statue of swami vivekananda have been installed here .
located at the mouth of an estuary , where the tiracol river and the sea meet , this wonderful tiracol fort heritage hotel occupies part of restored 16th century tiracol fort .
bhuban , or rice cooked in banana leaves , is another must-try. .
for those seeking non-stop excitement , plan your visit between december and march , or during the month of july .
however , there can be few squares that can equal eaton square in providing accommodation for no less than three james bonds ! like mayfair , belgravia is almost entirely owned by the duke of westminster , britain 's richest man .
the u .s . government spent $ 20 million and the lives of many u .s . soldiers , indian people , and u .s . citizens to force the removal of the seminoles .
all motorists driving into the city or travelling on certain major roads and expressways are required to pay an electronic road pricing ( erp ) fee during the erp operating hours .
chiang mai not only became the capital and cultural core of the lanna kingdom , it was also the centre of buddhism in northern thailand .
television companies often use both this park and the grass area across the road near the jewel tower , where they interview politicians .
the islands total length , from north to south , is estimated at 48.7 kilometers and approximately 21.3 kilometers wide .
following exploration of the coast in 1521 by francisco de gordillo , the spanish tried unsuccessfully to establish a colony near present-day georgetown in 1526 , and the french also failed to colonize parris island near fort royal in 1562 .
bengkulu province is located on the southwest coast of sumatra. it occupies of 19 , 831 sq. km area and has about one million populations , comprising mostly rejang , malay , bugis and chinese ethnic ancestry people .
there is a bar and restaurant near lake to drown your sorrow and fill your stomach .
the sidi sayyad mosque is famous for its ten semicircular delicately carved stone windows ; one of them shows the intricately entwined branches of a tree , depicting the tree of life .
the kimkhab and tanchoi brocades are the finest , most opulent you ll find in varanasi .
apart from the hindus and buddhists , muslim from the third largest religious group .
the best way to get a palm - leaf-full of the rather evil looking concoction is to ask the local food stall owners if they have it on their menu .
the northern side is occupied by writers ' building .
there is so much to see in this incredible city .
dalhousie is a gateway to the chamba valley .
this is the oldest anglican church in asia .
central java is located exactly in the middle of java island .
since both the british and spanish claimed land in the area , relations between the two countries became tense so , in order to avoid a war , they agreed to respect each other 's commercial activities and settlements in the region .
every 12th year during the months of jan , feb world famous kumbh mela is held here on the banks of the holy sangam ardha kumbh mela is held every 6th year .
from 1805 to 1806 , indian cessions ( choctaw , chichasaw , cherokee ) are opened up to white settlement and by 1810 west florida , from pearl river to the mississippi is annexed by u .s . from spain .
the pool , which can be visited all year round , charges and entrance fee of 20 baht .
the mighty ganges originates from gaumukh in garhwal region of the himalayas .
just a seashell s throw from the baga beach , this is one of the most ambient little boutique hotels in the state .
ahalya bai constructed the existing temple in the year 1776 .
nahargarh meaning abode of the tigers was built by jai singh to bolster the defense of amer .
st. francis church was originally built by the portuguese in 1510 a.d. .
for , known as ' kala pani ' of ' black water ' , the city was the site of the cellular jail a panel colony where political prisoners were banished , perhaps never to be seen again .
the flower show is the pride of the festival .
lying 7 kms from the centre is the holiest spot in allahabad , the sangam ( confluence ) .
100 km south of agartala is where excavations are still in progress .
the ruling military junta assumed wide-ranging powers , its main aim being to eliminate the communist party and other leftist opposition .
the cornhusker state , beef state , nebraska is named from an oto indian word meaning ' flat water .
tourism has become an important industry , with millions of visitors annually visiting colorado s scenic wonders and hunting , fishing , or attending rodeos , fairs , and other special events .
bangalore is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
famed for its beautiful maheshwari and chanderi saris , madhya pradesh also nurtures a wealth of unique arts and crafts .
after the united states purchased the vast louisiana purchase , lewis and clark followed the missouri river across the dakotas in 1804-06. .
indeed , a large part of the state is located in the narrow valley that the river has created over the ages .
aizawl , the capital of mizoram , is perched precariously on a sharp ridge and has the atmosphere of a himalayan hill station .
gorakhnath temple , an ancient pilgrimage destination , is dedicated to guru gorakhnath .
the 37 meter gopuram is especially noteworthy for its intricate carvings depicting tales from hindu mythology .
the dakota signed a treaty with the u .s . government for the land where the minnesota river joins the mississippi , and , in the 1820s , fort snelling was built there .
you don t just walk into a shop to make a purchase ; you really do see the best exaple of naga culture around you .
the quapaw tribe sold 45 million acres of their land south of the arkansas river to the u .s . government for $ 18 , 000 before 1820 .
situated midway between india and burma , in the bay of bangal , the andaman and nicobar islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization .
mountain men , including some spaniards and mexicans , lived off the land as trappers and hunters .
an ideal destination to explore the rustic charm of rajasthan , khimsar is famous for its fort .
brazilians enjoy a good party whatever the circumstances .
nowhere in the world there is such a great concentration of high mountains , peaks , glaciers and passes except pakistan .
the list of beers and lagers is equally interesting ; there are about two dozen to choose from .
at one happy time , the club was the meeting place for every planter in the whole of the dooars .
west sumatra rivers include : kuranji , anai , ombilin , suliki , arau. the mountains & volcanoes of west sumatra are included : marapi ( 2 , 891 m ) , sago ( 2 , 271 m ) , singgalang ( 2 , 877 m ) , talakmau ( 2 , 912 m ) , talang ( 2 , 572 m ) , tandikat ( 2 , 438 m .
the feeling only becomes stronger as you come face to face with the terracotta red 19th century beach villa , with its charming blue shutters and tiled roof .
rulers belonging to different dynasties built these temples during different points of time in history. quite a few temples were constructed under the rule of the nanda kings , somavamsis , bhaumakaras , gangas and the suryavamsi gajapati kings .
the state capital is oklahoma city , other major cities or towns include tulsa , norman , and lawton .
presently being restored , this palace is particularly beautiful at night with the floodlights lit .
though all that remains of this magnificent piece of architecture is ruins , it is still an interesting pilgrimage site .
staying on phuket is easy , as there are only two seasons in a year - the rainy season ( may to october ) and the hot season ( november to april .
the state of karnataka , formerly known as mysore , is a state of strong contrasts , with the modern industrialized city of bangalore at one extreme and expanses of rural farming areas at the other .
its designer sir giles gilbert scott also designed the famous anglican cathedral in liverpool .
several centuries later the portugese took possession of the island .
spain was secretly ceded the louisiana territory , which included much of colorado , at the end of the french and indian wars in 1763 .
jaisalmer fort built in 1156 by the bhatti ruler , jaisala , the fort stands atop the 80 m high trikuta hill .
the fort was originally built as protection , was later used by the royal family as the residence in the 18th century .
as burma had occupied chiang mai for nearly 200 years , burmese architectural influences are visible in many temples .
the more adventurous newly wedded one can go ahead to treks emanating from leh .
a porter shall be insured for a sum of rs.50 , 000/- ( rupees fifty thousand ) only .
a place to see in alleppey kuttanad , called the rice bowl of kerala because of her wealth of paddy crops , and is at the very heart of the backwaters .
in 950 , khemgupta ascended the throne of kashmir , a man of mediocre ability who married princess didda , daughter of the ruler of lohara ( poonch ) and grand daughter of the shahi king of kabul .
sunday brunch is a lavish affair , where wine flows freely even as the table is refreshed , time and again , with sushi , sashimi , tempura , the works .
for an authentic goan experience , visit astoria , run by ida and edwin fonseca out of a converted old home .
it is not just sikhs who travel to the golden temple to pay homage , the sacred shrine is equally revered by hindus and people of other faiths who , too , make the pilgrimage to offers prayers at harmandir sahib .
it is one of those rare places in the world with five distinct seasons-pring , summer , monsoon , autumn and winter .
there are about 25 ghats in mathura today , of which the most important is the vishram ghat. where according to legend , shri krishna took his rest after killing kansa .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
with designs inspired by nature , myth and religion woven into silk , which is embellished with gold threads and contrasting border , they are both sensous and dramatic .
in the hilly reaches , panthers and leopards have been known to attack people and carry away small children .
the chidambaram nataraja temple is an excellent example of a unique amalgamation of a number of architectural styles .
this temple was constructed by maharaja gulab singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son maharaja ranbir singh in the year 1860 a.d. .
views on the new docklands in architectural terms may vary but it is beyond dispute that an exciting new area for living and working in has been created .
the homeless tribe settled near the red river on land received from the caddos , a tribe from texas .
to relive the fort s grand day s catch the light and sound show held every evening ( november - february : 6 : 30 to 7 : 30 p.m. ; march-october 7-8 p.m. ) .
himachal pradesh tourism completes the heady concoction with its cafe lalit at kufri , adding up to the stately charm of this hill station in india , himachal pradesh .
until 1924 when the last emperor of china was driven from the inner court , fourteen emperors of the ming dynasty and ten emperors of the qing dynasty had reigned .
the rhodians received an immediate offer from ptolemy iii eurgetes of egypt to cover all restoration costs for the toppled monument .
short walk southest of the old town are the weather worn earthen ramparts erected by chao kavila , the warrior who in 1776 drove the burmese out and restored the city to its former glory .
the sol kadi is perfect beverage accompaniment , as is the kokum juice .
there are ruins of temples and rock cut caves much of the exquisite sculpting has survived the two decades since badami ceased to be the administrative centre of the kingdom badami was the capital from 540 to 757 ad , after which the chalukyans lost out to the emerging power , the rashtrakutas .
the town of chamba is located in the colorful valley surrounded by the shivalik ranges and has the district headquarters .
perched on a cliff overlooking the river , the tranquility and scenic surroundings make up for the bare banes facilities .
shimla , the capital of himachal pradesh , is also called the `` queen of the hill stations .
ganjam has stores in bangalore and mumbai and also has collaborated with international designers like kazuo ogawa and yumi kastsura , names to reckon with in the fashion industry .
people flock here in the early morning for a heary breakfast - a mix of poha ( rice flakes soaked in water and then dried ) spiced with fried onions , sev ( deep fried and spiced gram flour ) and coriander leaves .
gol ghar is 1 km away from patna city and it is a huge beehive shaped structure built in 1786 by captain john garstin , following the famine of 1770 .
shiva is another name for independence , and the only reality of the universe is shiva who is infinite consciousness , and unrestricted independence .
if you want to experiment and have your caocktail attar , try nizam attar ( charkaman ) or hyderabadi perfumes ( pathargatti ) .
bengal is known for its liberal use of this golden fiber , and you ll find jute products ranging from your regular tablemats to beautiful carpets , colourful wall-hangings and even kitschy handbags .
its delicious momos and gyathuk and bhagthuk soup are legendary .
because of its strategic location in peninsular india , aurangzeb made it his capital from where he tried to quell the rising power of the marathas .
you can get to town by a pre booked rented car , taxis or auto rickshaws .
the present jhunsi is a very close to sangam was the kingdom of chandrabanshiya ( lunar clan ) king pururava .
named after a certain monsieur ross who built a house on it in 1864 , it has now been converted into a chapel .
the hindu temples with profuse carvings and the imposing gopurams of the southern temples are an eloquent testimony to the fine art of indian architecture .
down on the waterfront the cutty sark , last of the great tea clippers , enjoys a new existence as one of london 's most popular attractions seen across the world every year as the london marathon winds its past this historic ship .
alexander the great ( 326 bc ) had an encounter with the sibia tribe of balochistan .
many varieties of orchid abound here , in a range of stunning colours .
for centuries , the lighthouse of alexandria ( occasionally referred to as the pharos lighthouse ) was used to mark the harbor , using fire at night and reflecting sun rays during the day .
exotic wildlife , regal structures and platters of scrumptious eats the mahatma s state gujarat has more facets than we know of it .
the land of enchantment , new mexico 's upper region of the rio grande was called nuevo mexico as early as 1561 ; the name was anglicized and applied to lands ceded to the united states by mexico after the mexican war ; mexico is an aztec word meaning `` place of mexitli , `` an aztec god .
steps lead down to the river ghats from where you can look up at the soaring , golden spires of the several temples dotting the area .
there are several decorated palaces like moti mahal , phool mahal , sheesh mahal are located inside the mehrangarh fort .
when danced , lambada is sensual and fast-paced ; it got its name from the portuguese verb to whip or flog referring to the smacking of thigh against thigh .
the plot of the boi drama centers around the misfortunes of the prize bull which a wealthy cattle rancher has arduously searched for to improve his herd .
held in january every year , the ekamra haat , also known as the ekamra utsav , in bhubaneshwar is a great opportunity to buy all the traditional handicrafts and textile of orissa .
in barren island all you see is a protruding earth , but this defiantly worth a few photos because barren island is india s only active volcano .
the paragliding ashram is more like a friend s home than a hotel , and offers basic but charming accommodation in the form of a doremitory , two rooms , two rooms and tents , which you can put under the mango trees on a cool lawns .
hyderabad is now an international airport as well and is currently served by qatar airways , emirates , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
another historic site is the gauri shanker temple that you can visit during your tours to the temples of haridwar .
kabab , around jama masjid , when it is comes to spicy , succulent , delhi s probably second only to lucknow .
the main entrance to the mosque is through the buland darwaza ( the grand gateway ) , which was built in 1576 , it is 54 meters high and commemorates akbars victorious return from his campaign in gujarat .
dunked in thick tomato gravy with chillies , this crab masala tastes much better after the hard work that goes into ending it , try this with roties and parathas .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
the name of this cave `` phet `` , which means diamonds , is derived from the sparkling stone inside the cave that produces beautiful reflections on the cave wall just like glittering diamonds .
the laotian influence was told in the provincial seal which features a pond with a lotus flower and leaves in a circular frame .
the fact they failed should not be attributed to the inherent flaws in their scheme as it should on the less evident fact that their empires were crumbling .
jaigarh fort was cleverly built to give its archers an advantage over their targets .
apart from religious items , you can get other figurines fashioned out of either soft white soapstone , or khadipathara ; slightly harder greenish chlorite , or kochilapathara ; the harder pinkish khandolite or sahanapathara ; or the hardest black granite or mugunipathara .
for seventeen years , twenty thousand workmen are said to be employed on it daily , for their accommodation a small town , named after the deceased empress ' mumtazabad , now known as taj ganj , was built adjacent to it .
national championships were instituted and winners became cult figures .
the island lies between thaneermukkom and kumarakom , and is accessible only by boat .
a monk started the caves construction work that spanned ten dynasties .
during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india you must go on a tour to vaishnodevi. vaishnodevi is one of the most sacred hindu pilgrimages .
the red government buildings are a study in contrast against the remarkably white old british buildings still in existence , notably the maharajas palace .
the most incredible feature is that they were chiseled top downwards from a 2 km sheer rock escarpment .
concordia this chaotic jumble of ice and rocks looks like an amphitheater rimmed by ice streams descending from four highest mountains of the karakorams ( k-2 , gasherbrum-i , gasherbrum-ii and gasherbrum-iv ) .
the fifth largest state of india , andhra pradesh is irrigated by the mighty krishna and the godavari rivers and is aptly termed as the ' rice granary of india .
jakarta is the capital city of the republic of indonesia , a country composed of more than 13 , 000 islands with a population of over 180 million .
best month to visit october to march is the best period to visit the city .
state roadways buses and private bus companies connect aurangabad from pune ( 5 hours ) , nashik ( 5 hours ) indore .
the erstwhile garden city has now been pegged the 'silicon valley ' of india .
most of the local pubs are owned by youngs , an excellent family run brewer based in nearby wandsworth and are well worth a visit .
in the province , there are 50 national preserved forests , 3 national parks , 2 botanical gardens , 1 wild life preservation area and 1 botanical park .
though the superstructure has been completely destroyed over the years there is a large block right in the middle of the debris .
the place is crowded on most evenings , especially weekends , and a patient wait is suitably rewarded .
coriander leaf emphasises home cooking .
in 1998 , pinochet officially retired and chile has begun to come to terms with his legacy .
cooked with tomatoes , green chillies , ginger , onion and garlic , the dish takes nearly two hours to cook to perfection at many restaurants in the state , but those who love the larvae know it is all worth it .
chennai , the gracious capital city of tamil nadu is the fourth largest metropolis in india .
visas are mandatory but exemptions include 1 ) bhutanese and nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months , 2 ) nationals from the maldives , if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days ( this includes any periods they may have spent in india up to 6 months prior to the visit in question ) , 3 ) transit passengers who have a follow on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
there is one difference between the two temples and that is dhathamandir does not have a colonnade .
the paragliding ashram is so known because it also runs a school offering both weekends and five day introductory courses for adventurous .
this ancient religious town is known as kasi that signifies the age-old hindu belief that this was the place where rays of light fell for the first time after creation .
buy their beautiful handicrafts , taste their mouthwatering food and return with a treasure trove of pleasant memories .
darjeeling is bengal s dream .
when there are high levels of rainfall , the falls are at their fullest and most powerful state .
as the sun rises over a holy river or the sea , the air echoes to the pilgrims ' chant of mantras. lingaraja temple an eternal dawn ritual asking for the benediction of the gods .
bangalore is the principal administrative , cultural , commercial and industrial centre of the state of karnataka .
the deccan odyssey luxury train is maharashtra s answer to rajasthan s palace on wheels .
one has to remember that hyderabad is a predominantly islamic state and therefore , it stands to reason that the festivals that stand out will be those of the muslims .
the descent into betalghat is equally dramatic .
there is a huge fort , which has beautiful buildings including lavishly built palaces , mosques , temples , baolis or reservoirs , water systems , fountains , open terraces and pleasure gardens of the mughal times .
today , almost one third of the region west of the missouri river belongs to native americans .
if you wish to begin your holiday in kumaon on a memorable note , the cottage is the perfect place for you .
this is the only overland opening between the two countries , which continue to have hostile relations ever since independence in 1947 .
they traveled through nebraska from 1700 to 1760 , in 1804m the lewis and clark expedition mapped the eastern boundary of nebraska .
it was during her time that mahmud gaznavi twice tried to capture the valley but the fort at lohara , remarkable for its height and strength proved impregnable .
fatehpur sikri is an epic in red sandstone .
you will notice that the walls of the ruins of this ancient temple are adorned with statutes of hindu deities , the most prominent being that of lord shiva .
light cottons are the best clothing , except in winter , when light woolens are required .
khon kaen is the centre of the northeastern silk industry with numerous villages producing their own mudmee designs .
now , chail could measure up to a much larger shimla , the summer capital of the british empire , and another hill station in india .
during the urs fair , folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices .
minjar fair has been declared as one of the state fairs of himachal pradesh .
though the capital of gujarat was shifted from ahmedabad to gandhinagar , it is still the second largest industrial city in western india .
it borders with west java province in the western part , while in the eastern part borders with east java province .
in the month of february , you will find hawkers selling papari wrapped in colorful newspaper .
sonam palgey is the best hotel in the lachung valley , primarily because of its dramatic location by a waterfall overlooking the valley .
several banks are located in agra .
an exclusive up gradation of the traditional ' haat ' .
built by maharana kumbha in the 15th century , the fort extends over 12km and encloses many temples , gardens and palaces .
the dominant tribe in the region before 1655 , their hunting territory extended into western kentucky and across missouri and iowa , the latter provoking occasional skirmishes with the pawnee and wichita on the plains .
the palace of nana sahib was reduced to rubble by the british in 1857 and the only traces remaining of it are some large well heads and broken palace walls .
built in the 12th century , a fine example of dravidian temple architecture , krishnaraja wodeyar renovated the chamundeswari temple in 1827 .
cochin is also one of the finest natural harbors of the world and a major indian port .
after the construction of the karakoram highway ( kkh ) in 1982 along the same alignment , joining pakistan with chinese muslim autonomous region of xinjiang , the ancient trade link has been revived .
the uprights rest on concrete foundations installed a few meters below ground-level on top of a layer of compacted gravel .
the jesuits made use of the music to catechize the indians by replacing the original words with religious ones using the tupi language .
you can hire a private car from a travel agent or car rental company to move around agartala .
for hospitality , nothing beats the mayfair and windamere hotels .
their language , betawi malay , has two variations : conventional betawi malay , spoken by elder people and bred in jakarta , and modern jakarta malay , a slang form spoken by the younger generation and migrants .
central java is located between 5o 40 ' and 8o 30 'south latitude and between 108o 30 ' and 111o 30 ' east longitude .
some people believe that samba was born in the streets of rio de janeiro with contributions from three different cultures - portuguese country songs , african rhythms , and native indian fast footwork .
the london transport museum is a great place to take the children with heaps of interactive exhibits .
chon buri is the center of the eastern seaboard development project , with its industrial parks and fishing villages .
kovalam beach ( 16 km south of thiruvanthapuram ) is perhaps the most famous spot of the malabar coast , considered by many as india 's finest and something of an unforgettable experience .
the reisados consist of a series of 24 folk plays of which the most popular is the bumba-meu-boi. .
the hall at middle temple witnessed the opening night of shakespeare 's twelfth night in 1602 and contains a table made from the wood of sir francis drake 's ship .
modelled on the taj mahal , aurangabad 's mughal tomb garden was built by prince azam khan in memory of his mother , begum rabia daurani .
there is a huge ice lingam inside the amarnath cave that represents the main deity .
in addition to the folk dances , there are many dance dramas ( really theatrical productions ) popular in brazil that trace their histories directly to the middle ages .
everything means everything a tourist can imagine while on holiday : recreation , entertainment , sports , sightseeing and fun .
just off holland road and outside the orchard road area , the dempsey enclave is no longer only known for its antique , teak furniture shops and carpet dealers .
overlying the foundation was a stepped podium which sides were decorated with statues .
sample the range of cosmetics , perfumes , jewellery , clothes , fashion accessories , household bric-a-brac , kids wear , and audio and video cds on display at ansal plaza ( khel gaon marg ) cross river mall in shahadra and west gate near rajouri garden .
the present splendid dome over the mazar was constructed by emperor shahjahan , who also constructed the jama masjid in the year 1638 .
the structure was rectangular in plan , with base dimensions of about 40 m ( 120 ft ) by 30 m ( 100 ft .
patna planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy and also holds exhibitions .
a picturesque garden laid out during the reign of maharaja shiv dan singh in 1868 a , d , the garden has an enchanting setting called shimla which was built by maharaja mangal singh and the cool shades make it the idyllic visiting spot during summers .
credit cards are accepted in the larger hotels ; restaurants and commercial establishments in the cities but only cash will do in the smaller towns of the state .
the earliest inhabitants were the kubus , who were among the first wave of malays to migrate to sumatra .
west sumatra province is divided among 8 regencies and 6 municipals with padang as its capital city .
without a doubt , the rock cut monuments at ajanta and ellora are the prime attraction for people visiting aurangabad .
florida was settled long before europeans had discovered the peninsula .
as a result , most of the rajput maharajas followed suit , building palaces for themselves here , and each summer mount abu saw a giddy social whirl , with cricket , golf and dancing at the rajputana club - - and much political intrigue at the british residency .
first time visitors to amritsar could be forgiven for the impressions that amritsar is like any other small town in northern india .
rallying the mission to test man & machine against indian terrain also rose to become a popular sport .
the period also saw the establishment of small janapadas or republics in himachal pradesh .
it is a major tourist attraction and centers upon the piazza which was originally designed by inigo jones in the 1630s .
espelho and coruipe are two interconnected beaches surrounded by lush coconut groves , enticing reefs , natural pools , soaring white and red rock cliffs .
neolithic ( 7 , 000 bc-3 , 700 bc ) , bronze ( 3 , 700 bc-2 , 700 bc ) and iron age sites ( 770 bc ) , and so on can be found in the yellow river 's drainage basin , which had been the center of ancient chinese culture since the azilian ( middle stone age .
chan and muk are still highly respected by phuket residents even today .
however , they must pay sgd 0.60 when departing and / or arriving into singapore via the tuas checkpoint .
if you are carrying dutiable articles , you have to pass through the red channel for detailed customs clearance .
sant jarnail singh bhindranwale , a militant sikh leader gave a call for separate nationhood , which spread like wildfire throughout the state .
old dominion , ancient dominion , cavalier state , virgina was named in 1584 in honor of queen elizabeth of england , who was popularly called the `` virgin queen .
one can rest at cafe lalit which is run by himachal pradesh tourist department and enjoy the panoramic view from the heights of this place located in one of the most sought after honeymoon destinations in india for possible honeymooners in india .
mahua flower-buds also make a delicious sweet .
at the height of its power , the lanna kingdom extended its territory far into burma and laos , and southwards to kamphaeng phet a province above sukhothai .
according to the teachings of guru arjan dev , it was enough for the devout to visit these shrines and not visit all the original hindu shrines which are spread all over the country .
times were had and indian families hungry. when the u .s . government broke its promises , some of the dakota went to war against the white farmers and towns .
a first aid kit with essential medicines for fevers , colds , tummy upsets and antihistamine is necessary even though most chemist shops will have well stocked shelves .
dharamshala is famous as the abode of the dalai lama and is called as the `` little lhasa ' because of the large number of tibetan population .
foreign nationals are not allowed to visit nicobar islands .
the sweet pists ki lauz at ghantewala ; creamy rabdi and delightful khurchan at paranthewali gali ; golden , crunchy jalebi at chandni chowk ; fragrant biryani and succulent kebabs at jama masjid , butter chicken at pandara road ; cholle bhature in karol bagh ; chaat in bengali market .
the temple building has four entrances instead of the usual single entry .
a panoramic vie of bithoor can be enjoyed from valmiki ashram .
the monte pascoal national park is well worth a bit of exploration while you are there , particularly , if you are interested in indigenous culture , as the pataxos tribe controls access to the park .
whether it s dreadlocks of afros , body piercing or tatto parlours ingo s has it all .
after several periods of expansion , it is one of the most famous taoist temples in wuzhong region .
housands of starving people immediately jumped into the flooded vitasta and in order to find the coins cleared the bed of the rocks and boulders which had choked up the passage .
you will find chamba chukh in shops all over dalhousie in two version mild and mouth fire .
tiananmen square , surrounded by a six meter deep moat and a ten meter high wall are 9 , 999 buildings .
a remarkable feature of nepal is the religious homogeneity what exists , particularly between the hindu and buddhist communities .
from an architectural standpoint , the monument has been used as a model for many prototypes along the mediterranean , as far away as spain .
feel like a spot of tea , you ll love the sweetmeat basket that is brought along with evening tea at little wayside eateries .
on both sides of the taj are two identical red sandstone mosques .
famous and much loved festival of northern india is called kullu dussehra , begins in october on the day that the rest of the country stops celebrating in himachal .
the 12th century temple is dedicated to lord shiva .
most californians were resigned to inevitable yankee rule , though a revolt at los angeles led to a pocket of californian resistance lasting from september 1846 to january 1847 .
many villages belonging to the main tribal groups the warli , kokna and dudhiyas can be visited near madhuban dam .
today , bolghatty palace is a hotel run by the kerala tourism development corporation .
flanked by bangladesh on the west and myanmar on the east and south , our hilly state of mizoram is synonymous with peace .
in delhi one can see , the mingling of many cultures , languages , tradition and peoples into one united nation .
made of local golden-yellow sandstone and wood , some of the havelis are still in excellent condition .
the other tourist places in haridwar include kalika temple , kankhal temples , tapkeshwar temple dedicated to lord shiva .
a party , shall be accompanied by a qualified physician / surgeon who shall also pay due professional attention to l. o. / m . g and porters .
similar to the great pyramid , we are now visiting the burial place of an ancient king .
the west coast offers sailing in mumbai , goa and the lakes around pune .
calcutta has grown , remains a city of contrasts , a mix-up of light and shade , a strange medley of ancient and modern , skyscrapers and victorian edifices , heaven of the rich and the poor as seldom found anywhere in the world .
the eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers .
a perfect blend of arts , culture and craft is presented in shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material .
auto rickshaws are the all time favorites as their drivers often double as local guides .
so , don t come out to karnataka with just a week in hand , come and stay longer , wander off the beaten track and discover all that the state has to offer .
the minarets have a slightly outward incline , to prevent them from falling on the monument during an earthquake .
the production of paddy increased and the price of one khirwar ( nearly two mounds ) came down to 36 dinars from 200 dinars .
the placing of old pennies in the mechanism controls the accuracy of the clock movement , yet it is incredibly accurate .
national parks & monuments include channel islands , death valley , joshua tree , kings canyon , lassen volcanic , mojave , redwood , sequoia , yosemite , cabrillo , devil 's postpile , lava beds , muir woods , and pinnacles .
neelekurunji flowers , which bloom once in every 12 years , carpet the serene hills of munnar .
you can go trekking in rugged hills and valleys ; explore beautiful limestone caves and enchanting landscapes .
in 1803 , the louisiana purchase was acquired by the united states , and , in 1819 , arkansas was organized as a territory .
when the portuguese penetrated the indian ocean in the late 15th century , they arrived at india 's southwestern coast .
daman a place with seductive and inviting beaches with warm white sands , well manicured gardens and portugese edifices make the idyllic frame of this quaint land , pleasantly free of crowd .
the finely handcrafted ornaments sold in bastar s haat .
it is rare to come across a place that welcomes the 21st century with an ' adaab ' .
wenlock downs is a region of extensive grasslands with shoals or gallery forests of eucalyptus .
unearthed artifacts include stone tools , bronze implements , metal coins , pottery shards , ceramic and stone decorative art and colored beads that are over 5 , 000 years old in this wat khlong thom museum .
but the golden temple is a serene presence , radiating a calm that makes people bow their heads in reverence .
ajmer was also favorite residence for the great mughals .
a fine blend of indo-european architecture , dutch palace acquired the present name after it was renovated by the dutch in 1663 .
on the western wall of the compound is the museum , there is a good collection of mughal miniature paintings , portraits of the mughal rulers , ancient coins and porcelain .
change money only at authorized foreign exchange outlets/banks/hotels and insist on proper receipt .
exquisite maheshwari zari bordered saris and dupattas , made from a unique cotton and silk , can be bought almost straight off the rehwa weaving society s weavers looms in maheshwar , a small town about 90 km from indore .
besides the modern city itself , there are several interesting towns like mamallapuram and kanchipuram , each with a rich collection of ancient temples and an array of traditional handicrafts which are very much their own .
national parks & monuments of utah are arches , bryce canyon , canyonlands , capitol reef , zion , cedar breaks , dinosaur , grand staircase - escalante , hovenweep , natural bridges , rainbow bridge , and timpanogos cave .
the animal life is thick with ghoral , kakkar , sambhar and cheer pheasants , to name a few animals .
bengkulu province area is 21 , 168-sq.km widths. bukit barisan mountain range constitutes its northeastern border , beyond which lie in south sumatra and jambi provinces .
but kumarghat is insurgency prone so check the current situation before going there .
lakshadweep offers excellent wind surfing , snorkeling and scuba diving in the crystal clear waters of the lagoons which surround each island .
phang-nga is a province with two characters - land and sea - and packed with national parks that guard magnificent scenery with immensely different attractions .
today , the london eye has become , quite literally , the way the world sees london .
not many oriya dishes are popular , as they haven t been marketed , but the cooking in every oriya home is delicious .
from the pier , hire a rental boat and travel along the tha prang canal for approximately 15 minutes .
the peak season in jaisalmer runs through autumn , winter and spring in the months of october - march .
for a great holiday , come to mizoram .
in addition to remarkable views and mangrove forests to the north of the beach , the main attraction for visitors to hat rai le is the adrenaline pumping activity of cliff climbing .
the vasona lion safari is another place that can be very exciting for children ; a vast area of teak plantation and forests off the silvassa khanvel road has been enclosed to house a few captive bred lions .
tropical moist deciduous forests grow in the terai and the northern areas .
nestling amidst tall trees , the wonders of the dense simlipal forest is at your doorstep here .
boat quay is one of the best spots in singapore for alfresco dining .
monal ' the state bird of himachal pradesh and one of the endangered species of himalayan region has been the other attractions .
jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture , traditional jodhpuri handicrafts , dye textiles , leather shoes , antiques , embroidered shoes carpets , tie & dye sarees , silver jewellery , local handicrafts & textiles , lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from jodhpur .
content in their lifestyles and traditions , the people of meghalaya will be happy to welcome you into their home .
the most notable place of worship in the district of bilaspur is the temple of shri naina devi ji .
laments dr. p. c. ray that never before the karkota period , had kashmir performed such a feat , nor was she able to repeat it in future .
with a population of 6 million people , chennai is a vibrant city ever growing , expanding and changing every year .
a trade-free zone , it is on the fast track to development , but has retained its natural splendour .
the pointillist style of the picture , with colored marks juxtaposed to draw light and movement out of the shapes , is exactly consistent with the tower 's own style of architectural expression .
but a big change occurred on 29 april 1961 when the first group of about 100 american servicemen who would join the vietnam war arrived in pattaya for relaxation .
the lake palace , or the jag niwas , may have been converted into one of the world 's most romantic luxury hotels in the 1960 's , but not many visitors are aware of its even more romantic past .
the seal of surat thani says a lot about its history .
a narrow causeway links the harmandir , or darbar sahib , the temple .
one of the swankiest hotels , cidade de daman features smart , spacious rooms , a swimming pools , as well as tennis and badminton courts for those who like to keep active on their holidays .
i loved staying with the friendly villagers in their homes and living the way they do , eating with them , learning about them .
arkansas is located in the mid-south ; arkansas is the northwestern most of the states commonly considered the south .
porters restaurant on henrietta street provides splendid british food at very reasonable prices if you 're in need of sustenance .
allahabd is the most vibrant politically spiritually conscious and spiritually awakened city of india .
it remains for the others a place to be to discover making a tour to munnar a must .
private vehicles are not allowed in so buses abound , rumbling and roaring their way around , drowning out any chance of seeing animals .
bookings can be made at the service counters at the airport s arrival hall .
heavan for the nature lover , meghalaya has the balpakram national park , nongkhyllem bird sanctuary , siju bird sanctuary and nokrek biosphere reserve to experience nature in all its glory .
only 67 miles away from nainital , almora is surrounded by the trishul peaks on the northern side .
beautiful scrolls and floral patterns decorate the church .
western colorado was obtained from mexico ( which had won its independence from spain ) by the treaty of guadalupe hidalgo , which ended the mexican war in 1848 .
their vision was clear from aurangabad they would be better able to control both northern and southern regions of their empires .
by the year 1885 , the time when the tower was being constructed , the use of iron and steel in bridges and building frameworks had become widespread .
the foundation stone of red sandstone ghat was laid by tikait rai , a minister of awadh state .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
during your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the chilla khawaja saheb that is located atop the anasagar ghati .
iromba is prepared by boiling vegetables ( potatoes , onions , green herbs or ferns ) , ngari and red hot chillies .
st. george forane church , considered to be one of the oldest churches in kerala , was built on a plot of land donated by the raja of edapally .
apart from the beaches and its marine life nicobari mats are what made andamans famous the world over .
there were tens of thousands of people in villages near the mississippi river and other groups located across the state .
the countries varied and beautiful landscape should make this goal feasible .
if you re looking for the ultimate fine dining experience , then head to the banyan tree at the taj holiday village .
endangered species of the order of snow leopard , blue sheep and musk deer comprise the predominant fauna of sikkim .
khao khanap nam has beautiful caves with amazing stalactites and stalagmites worth exploring .
there are rows upon rows of shops on each street selling specifics goods .
daman is home to some of the country s finest churches , relics from the time of the portuguese rule between 1531 and 1961 .
the bird sanctuary kumarakom , which is spread across 14 acres , is a favorite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist 's paradise .
phi phi islands and the coastal hills are composed mainly of limestone and are an extension of the limestone mountain range in phang-nga province .
hybrid tea roses , miniature roses , floribunda , ramblers , roses of unusual colors like black and green are some of the more than 2 , 000 varieties of roses that will captivate your senses .
shawls , scarves , stoles and bedspreads of himroo can be bought near zafar gate in mondhard district or visit a factory to see the actual creative process .
any interested soul can take up the sport with a bit of discipline and a sense of following directions. places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include gulmarg in jammu and kashmir , auli in garawhal , kufri and narkanda in himachal pradesh .
you can use ahmedabad as a base for excursions to the spectacular stepwell adalaj vav ( 19 km ) , modhera ( 105 km northwest ) an 11 th century sun temple , patan ( 130 km northwest ) the former capital of gujarat , and the nal sarovar bird sanctuary ( 58 km southwest ) marshes and a lake with flamingos , pelicans , ducks , geese , cranes , storks , ibises , spoonbills , kingfishers , swallows , fishing eagles , osprey , harriers and falcons .
it was during his reign that three adventurers , shah mir from swat ( tribal ) territory on the borders of afganistan , rinchin from ladhak , and lankar chak from dard territory near gilgit came to kashmir , and played a notable role in subsequentive political history of the valley .
both of them are in ruins now , but even then , they stand as the most imposing monuments of ancient kashmir .
sea canoeing is the eco-tourist activity par excellence , and proves the benefit of the natural approach. the quiet of this mode of tourism heightens your sense of awareness , and wildlife is not scared by your silent approach .
kabaadi bazaar famous sunday market began life in the lawns of lal quila before moving to its present location in daryaganj .
pattaya s coastline is 15 kilometers long so there is many beaches for tourists .
this sandy tract of land adjoining pakistan boasts of udaipur , the city of lakes and mount abu , our prime concern here among other hill stations in india , the snow capped beauties of himalayas and their sylvan surroundings .
spectacular views apart , the himalayan foothills are just ideal for trekking , offering energetic outdoor people a different and exciting option for a holiday .
the changing the guard ceremony now takes place only every other day in the winter but it is still daily in the summer months .
some of the most popular temples that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
general augusto pinochet ugarte was declared supreme chief of state and president , and remained in power despite considerable opposition from many sectors of society .
although part of it was gutted a few years ago , there are rows upon rows of little shops still thriving .
the bricks were made from white lime and glutinous rice while the cement is made from glutinous rice and egg whites .
painted a bright vermilion red , the color associated with hanuman , the temple houses a reclining image of the god .
the andes mountain range crosses the country from north to south .
from here he guided india to freedom after the freedom movement this city of textiles often called the manchester of the east became a national pilgrimage , a symbol of nonviolence and peace .
you could also visit aurangabad between october and march , when the weather is pleasant .
in collaboration with the taj group of hotels , this train is a complete 5 star experience , with gourmet food and extensive wine lists in its two restaurants and bars .
besides , it has a collection of contemporary paintings as well .
the day begins and ends with a betal leaf within which is wrapped bits of lime , catechu , cardamom , and a slice of coconut. get into the spirit of things and chew your own .
it is surrounded by a white marble corridor , which is encircled by pilgrims visiting the shrine .
the first trading post in montana was established at the mouth of the bighorn in 1807 by a trading expedition that manuel lisa led up the missouri from st. louis .
from wooden temple cars to intricately carved panels , erotic figurines and floral motifs , woodcraft has been part of tamil nadu s heritage since time immemorial .
another building , the ( palace of winds ) allowed the ladies of the harem to catch the cool evening breeze .
fatehpur sikri is about 39 km from agra .
every traveler make it a point to visit the state s three unesco world heritage the almost perfectly preserved stupas at sanchi will draw in just as they did emperor ashoka centuries ago .
in the center of the building is the hall where the cochin rajas held their coronations .
nepali , serves the purpose of the kingdom 's lingua franca in nepal while the educated people speak and understand english as well .
fort is open to the public from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. .
tourist infrastructure leaves much to be desired and there is very little to see in the city except interesting markets .
bodhgaya is 13 kms. from gaya , this is a very sacred pilgrim centre for hindus .
india travel destinations does congratulatory work to promote honeymoon in kerala for honeymooners in india .
the most numerous group of immigrants are asians and pacific islanders , though many mexicans immigrate to california , either legally or by illegally crossing the border between california and texas .
by the middle of the 18th century , the royal family moved into the fort when a new zenana or ladies ' residence was added to the existing construction .
delhi , where you can shop for everything from priceless lithographs in rarefied art galleries to designer knock-offs from street markets where food and eating are not just a way of life but the very art of living .
the drawing is traced on the board , the pieces of glass , semi-precious stones and ornamental pieces are stuck to the board .
singapore s mice ( meetings , incentive travel , conventions and exhibitions ) facilities were also voted the best in asia for the second year in a row .
there are arts villages as well as designer stores to entice the shopper , road on to know what you shouldn t miss .
mumbai a cluster of seven islands derives its name from mumbadevi , the patron goddess of the koli fisher folk , its oldest inhabitants. mumbai image .
flowers two thousand years old sparkle like jewels , vivid figures move with life , gift bearing ladies serve goldlike kings .
even as you enter the state , you will begin to see , to feel , why goa is the favoured destination of travelers from all over the globe .
sitting bull , crazy horse , and gall were among the famous sioux warriors who fought the u .s . army in present south dakota and neighboring areas .
even today most tribal people of balochistan province resemble arabs and the inhabitants can be quite a fascinating subject of study by anthropologists .
centrally located ulsoor lake is spread over an area of 1 . 5 sq . km .
tourist lodge , with its extensive paddy fields , champhai , about 192 km east of aizawl , is picture-perfect countryside on the indo-myanmar border .
johnson s cafe is the perfect place for those who appreciate grilled trout and sumptuous italian fare .
to be fair , some parts of the barbican are very pleasantly landscaped with fountains and plants , but ( with the exception of the roof conservatory ) you are never far way from grey 1960 's concrete slabs .
with the mind boggling variety of embroidered dress materials and bedspreads and all types of curios , the night market is a one stop shop for speedy souvenir buying .
the national parks system in thailand was previously cited its growing importance to the eco-tourism industry .
these rock cut sites are dated to the 8 th or 9 th centuries .
referred to as the venice of the east by travelers from across the world , this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life .
hyderabad golconda is one of the famous forts of india ; the name originates from the telugu words `` golla konda `` meaning `` shepherd 's hill .
one of the most impressive palaces constructed during the last half of the 19th century the lallgarh palace defies the bleak and rugged reality of the harsh thar desert around bikaner .
camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to himachal and sharing the warmth of its people .
you really can use the word unique for staying in wood-panelled luxe rooms in a boat , floating on the waters of the dal or nagin , or the river jhelum .
russell 's find started the `` pike 's peak or bust `` gold rush of 1858-59. historians estimate that approximately 50 , 000 people came to colorado in search of gold in 1858-59. .
arabic kafta kebab and chicken satay make great starters ; the steaks fish , chicken and tenderloin are fusion s specialty .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol has begun to adhere to western standards .
the marwari has a beautiful head crowned by perky lure shaped ears meeting at the tips .
there is a gold idol of annapoorna , the deity of the temple located within the temple premises .
no party shall be allowed to proceed to its destination if the kit / equipment provided by it to l.o./m.g. porters is found incomplete or sub-standard in quality. before leaving rawalpindi/islamabad , a l.o./m.g. shall satisfy himself that the kit / equipment is complete and of required standard .
many dakota did not join in , but the fighting lasted six weeks and many people on both sides were killed or fled minnesota .
the ' baradari ' pavilion was built by shah jahan , to facilitate his long stays in ajmer .
though the climate is suitable for visit anytime of the year , the best season is between october-february and just avoids june when it is too hot to sightsee .
as the sun sets , a different world comes to life in singapore .
new market was established in 1874 and named after the theen cjommissioner. in kolkata , it is the shopper s favourite huant .
in 1900 , the name was changed to monthon i-san , when the monthon system was abolished , the city has become ubon ratchathani province .
pithoragarh , also called ' miniature kashmir ' , is the base for treks to jolinkong .
the palace was set in the middle of lake pichola , across from his father 's lakeside residence ensuring the access was by boat .
habitat amritsar lies in the state of punjab , just 29 kms away from the border of pakistan .
the manor has the air of an old english bunglow , where understated elegance and discreet service combine to leave you feeling like a visiting dignitary .
around & about by air ajmer does not have an airport of its own but the nearest airport is at jaipur ( 130 km .
the india habitat centre is where i have had better service than at any five star hotel-the atrium and the design of the building also make it unique , as does its proximity to lodhi garden , where one can go for a long refreshing walk in the mourning .
the daria daulat , tipu s summer palace with a beautifully gilded and painted interior and the majestic gumbaz his mausoleum , are located close to the river .
the small thatch-roofed huts at dilli haat sell everything from sandalwood carvings to jewellery , silks to brass and metal , ethnic garments to durries and rugs , wall hangings to traditional artworks the list is endless .
the kashi-vishwanath temple is also known as the golden temple and is a popular religious tourist destination .
the building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work .
everyone is a stakeholder in the process and we clearly need to avoid our past shortcomings and negative impact that they have had .
the entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic , precious stones , gold and silver work .
this music festival brings together the most luminous artistes both from india and all over asia. from the soulful sounds of the qawwali to the passion of dervishes , you ll find it all here .
by train ahmedabad is well connected to most destinations in the country as well as to the different towns in gujarat .
this sacred shrine was constructed during the reign of the chand dynasty and according to popular legend absolutely no one could establish the shivlinga inside the temple sanctum and finally one manorath pandey of palayn village went on penance and succeeded in installing the shivlinga within the temple sanctum on the festival of shivratri .
the peculiar note of his fusion art form is to take up cudgels against the social injustices and discrimination prevailing in the society .
the majority of the residents were planters who lived in the rich bottomlands of the east and southeastern portion of the state and farmers who lived in the central and northern hills .
the ancestors of many north dakotans emigrated from norway , germany , russia , and canada .
one can still see evidences of the early buddhist influence in amravati and at nagarjunakonda , one of the greatest archaeological sites in the country .
the assembly of the tower was a marvel of precision , as all chroniclers of the period agree .
he then sang the monsoon raga , megh malhar invoking the rains and so doused the flames .
steam chickpea cake cut into squares , khaman is extremely popular in silvassa .
the 12th century temple church is well worth a look as is the fascinating and under visited sir john soane 's museum in lincoln 's inn with its eccentric collections of paraphernalia .
for those who love to travel and cook , pick up a culinary tip or two at some of the culinary academies in singapore .
adventure tourism in india offers rare opportunities of the order of parasailing , skiing , water sports , river rafting , trekking and mountain climbing to name some of the chief deals on offer in india .
a fun and popular feature in lord s central is the giant floor chess set , perfect for recreating the scene from harry potter .
this honeymoon destination in india ideally suited for the benefit of the more restive of the honeymooners in india , is the proud possessor of several landmarks of note .
sooner state , boomer 's paradise ( early illegally land claimers ) , oklahoma was named by native american missionary allen wright by combining two choctaw words : ' ukla ( `` person `` ) and huma ( `` red `` ) ; thus , oklahoma means `` red person .
un metered auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws are the most common mode of local transport within the city .
as well as the world 's biggest rainforest in the amazon , brazil boasts many wilderness areas including the wildlife-rich wetlands of the pantanal , the canyons and caves of the chapada diamentina , and the mata atl & acirc ; ntica ( atlantic forest ) , which runs for much of the length of brazil 's coastline .
baia dos porcos and baia do sancho are two of the most highly rated diving destinations ( link to diving section fernando de noronha ) in the country , and praia do leao is home to abundant sea-turtle spawning. lucky for you , travelers to the archipelago of fernando do noronha ( link to 14 green destinations fernando de noronha ) have the good fortune of experiencing all three beaches in one trip .
unlike phi phi , scuba dive operators in ao nang close from may to october .
who knows , you may even learn to fashion combs out of bell metal .
the early detailed descriptions of the temple helped archeologists reconstruct the building .
these are the nilamadhava temple , padmeswara temple , kanakeswara temple , kenduli temple and the kosaleswara temple .
try the fish fry or the portuguese style pomfret curry .
the ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the serpent god nagaraja .
fossilized remains of prehistoric animals and the site of the java man at trinil , ngawi , will tantalize the archaeologist , as well as numerous temple ruins dating from the 7th century ad .
with approximately 35 percent of the population being comprised of thai-muslims , it is possible to see an equal number of wats ( thai temples ) located next to mosques .
a charming village like atmosphere pervades the streets and lanes of barnes due in part to the conspicuous absence of a tube station .
a beautifully carved silver turtle sits on the floor facing the sanctum - sanctorum or garbha griha .
thailand and the philippines are a short plane journey away .
bhuj is well connected by air to mumbai and ahmedabad , and to explore the crafts villages of the area , it is best to have a good tour operator chalk up an itinerary for you .
the kamakhya devi temple in assam , india is an important religious site that you may visit during your temple tours to assam , india .
in lucknow , try the popular prakash kulfi at the aminabad crossroads .
zhang house : built by xu 's family in the zhengtong era ( 1436 - 1449 ) of the ming dynasty and bought by zhang 's family in the early qing dynasty .
today the spelling of the name has been simplified to pattaya .
designed like a grand spanish hacienda , with spreading lawns and wonderfully laid out gardens and pools , tivoli garden resort , chatterpur road , resort on the outskirts of delhi is a haven of tranquility and the rooms are plush , and ideal for a weekend filled with luxurious lazing .
the auli resort has snow beaters , which beat the snow to keep the slopes , fit for skiing at all times .
portuguese in origin , these dance dramas have been modified considerably by centuries of exposure to brazil 's diverse cultures .
on eastern metropolitan bypass , science city is an area of knowledge and adventure .
sprawled over 35 acres and littered with fountains and orchards , the mahesh vilas palace , shivgarh is reputed for its long verandah , which has 60 beautiful carrara marble pillars .
orissa is also a storehouse of colourful handicrafts and weave available in a wide range of designs and patterns .
over 100 rooms are divided into three sections and each one is connected by arcades and aisles .
sarpa yakshi and naga yakshi are the beloved consorts of nagaraja .
about a third of tourist revenues are spent on colorado s world famous ski slopes , such as vail and aspen .
mu ko lanta national parks main island is ko lanta yai , where both the headquarters and national park office are located .
monsoons bring some respite while winters are cold with minimum temperatures falling down to 4 c .
many canals were dug-out to increase the irrigational facilities .
large-scale european immigration provided labor to mine coal , run steel mills , and enhance the economy and culture of the state .
an erstwhile passion of the royal families some , like the former ruler of udaipur , still patronize it the game is now largely a preserve of the men in uniform , played in meters and cantonment lawns .
metal casting and the embossing if designs on metal are longstanding traditions all over the state of karnataka .
during your temple tours to the vimal vashi temple you 'll notice the grandeur of this jain temple that is almost 98 feet high .
it is also an excellent base to explore the interiors of kerala , the southernmost region of india , and from kochi , the lakshadweep islands .
located on rinkingpong rd , nature interpretation centre consists of a number of well-organized dioramas , which depict the effects of human activity on the environment .
on the way to mandu , indore or maheshwar , take the detour to the bagh buddhist rock cut caves .
kalanjali art and crafts is a one - stop shop for all things andhra silk and cotton fabric , linen , stone and wood carvings , floor coverings , furniture .
there must be hope that the political climate becomes just as clement very soon .
the agra fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders , akbar and later on by jahangir and shahjahan .
also in 1792 , as vancouver charted the washington coast and inland waters , american captain robert gray , a fur trader from boston , explored the mouth of the columbia river .
pench jungle camp is situated right where mowgli ran with the wolves in kipling s the jungle book .
the fortress is remembered mostly for muhammed bin tughlaks abortive attempt to shift his capital from delhi to daulatabad in the early 14th century .
organic farming is being promoted everywhere , and a recently developed destination is dhudhni dam or dudhani , which is 19 km from khanvel in a splendid forested area .
this area is ideal for day hikes from aizawl .
among the more interesting paintings are the jataka tales , illustrating diverse stories relating to the previous incarnations of the buddha as bodhisattva , a saintly being who is destined to become the buddha .
the forests are a treasure trove of rare and exotic flora and fauna .
during sickness / injury in the mountains and hospitalization , a party shall pay half of the daily wages to a porter till the date he leaves the district headquarters for rawalpindi/islamabad. .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to chail so that the so-inclined can go and visit chail , which is another proud and prestigious jewel in the crown of hill stations in india , himachal pradesh .
you can try your hand at a variety of adventure sports like skiing , heli-skiing , paragliding and mountaineering .
sit out in a courtyard and wash the sea food down with some chilled beer , and more , sachintendulakar loves to eat here .
the sarafa bazaar is , a stone s throw from the town centre of rajawada , is lined with small silver jewellary shops during the day , but transform into a popuilar chaat bazaar after 10 p.m. each night .
do not forget to make an excursion to the distant reaches of the north , where you will be spellbound by the dramatic , forested landscape and the flowery meadows of yumthang .
dera baba bharbhag singh place has famous gurudwara where thousand of sikhs visit every year to receive the blessing of baba bharbhag singh .
north park is a great favourite with those who know its somewhat out of the way location , peace and tranquility is very much part of the package here , as nothing but birdsong and the gush of the ghaggar river flowing by disturb the calm , although rooms are basic yet offer all amenities ; and the service is as good as it gets .
holiday camping vis a vis hotel accommodation is gathering momentum amongst the metropolis traveler .
as far as portuguese legacies go , it is also worth checking out is the fortim do mar or the fortress of panikota , an imposing stone building in the middle of the sea .
kit / equipment for l.o./m.g. shall be brought according to his measurements , which shall be sent with the permission letter .
festivals of the order of malani , phalguni , shahri jatra and birshu are carried on with great gusto and fanfare in the kullu valley , a prominent hill station in india .
in 1790 congress organized the territory south of the ohio river , and tennessee joined the union in 1796 .
visit the art gallery ; drive upto chamundi hill to see chamundeshwari temple and a panoramic view of mysore. on the way back , see the nandi bull .
in recent years , jakarta has expanded its facilities for visitors with luxury hotels , fine restaurants , exciting nightlife and modern shopping centers .
the bulky animals move around with surprising speed and poise .
a bus or car ride from bangalore would take approximately 3 hours for mysore .
home to the nizams , reportedly , the world 's richest royals , hyderabad is also home to famous folk arts like shadow puppetry and kuchipudi .
a cheerful bazaar here features a wide range of colorful products , ranging from local handicrafts to some rather interesting imported goods .
the ethnic of jakarta called `` orang betawi `` speaks betawi malay , spoken as well in the surrounding towns such as bekasi and tangerang .
if it were , you could see the cells where prisoners were held awaiting trial in the mansion house magistrates court .
as a prominent hill station in india , phagli celebrated by the malani tribe is of immense significance to tourists .
you should wear a life jacket at all times and beware of boats and swimmers on crowded stretches of water , especially when you are still learning how to handle your board and sail .
after the completion of taj mahal each garden within the charbagh was divided into 16 flowerbeds , making a total of 64. it is said that each flowerbed was planted with 400 plants .
within its fold , the mountains of nagaland hold a million surprises .
summers get really hot and visitors need to acclimatize themselves to this dry and searing heat .
entertainment facilities at the vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach .
arkansas wasn t readmitted to the union until 1868 , when it finally adopted a constitution giving african americans the right to vote and hold office .
martin 's lane ; this house the equally impressive english national opera and english national ballet .
one of the oldest buildings in mussoorie , built in 1836 , this former palace of the raja kasmanda has been converted into an elegant resort .
in pench jungle camp you will camp ot in deluxe tents , equipped with all the comforts of running water , battery charged electricity and cosy furniture .
something of an institution , souza lobo s is a set in a charming goan home right on the calangute .
it has only been a little over 100 years since humans first occupied the continent ( 1899 ) and only nearly 200 years since seafarers first even saw the islands of the antarctic peninsula ( 1819 ) .
later the silver and copper mines drew irish , cornish , and many other immigrants to butte .
what is now south dakota was once claimed by france .
kaziranga national park is best known for the one-horned rhinoceros. one can reach kaziranga by passing through jagiroad , ngaon and bordoa .
king 's road is the main shopping area and provides a wealth of opportunity for the keen shopper .
the yellow river 's lower reaches ends in a delta on the bohai sea .
no trekking is allowed in closed zones which are the areas near pak-afghan border and near the line of control with indian-held kashmir .
then , sunglasses and the attendant sun screening equipment is a necessity if the weather during motorcycle safari in india gets a bit warm .
kufri is a small hill station near shimla .
leftist guerrillas created ' liberated areas ' , within which government forces were unable or unwilling to operate .
by road agra is connected to mathura ( 56 kms ) , delhi ( 203 kms ) , gwalior ( 118 kms ) , jaipur ( 237 kms ) and several other major cities .
canoeing and kayaking operators are available at ao nang .
it was not until the turn of the century that women in more than a handful of states had equal right to the family assets but in 1972 , idaho became the first state in the nation to ratify the equal rights amendment .
the dargah of sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chisti , located at the end of a dusty alley in the main market , makes ajmer an important pilgrim centre for muslims from all parts of the world and pushkar is the abode of lord brahma , which devout hindus aspire to visit at least once in their lifetime .
the inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated .
visit ranchandra jewellers , lal bazaar , gangtok .
there are also magnificent sand bars connecting sets of twin islands during low tide a rare phenomenon you may not find anywhere else .
shortly after the outbreak of world war ii , batavia fell into the hands of the invading japanese forces that changed the name of the city into ' jakarta ' as a gesture aimed at winning the sympathy of the indonesians .
this fact gave rise to a curious composite culture , which was hailed by many .
the nearest convenient railhead is north lakshimpur in assam , 50 km from naharlagun and 60 km from itanagar .
the palace hotel is surrounded by towering palm trees and is built with intricately carved black stone and italian marble .
carved out from a slice of the western himalayas , it holds many high mountain ranges , whose stark white peaka give the state its name-himachal , the abode of eternal snow .
the checkpoint between the two countries of india and bangladesh is at akhaura junction , 2km from agartala .
there are wax models of the famous and infamous from every walk of life .
more immigrants settle in california than any other state , more than one third of the nation 's total in 1994 .
partake of the indian national obsession ! tourists and locals participate equally in this monsoon mania .
there are lodges in jumla and a bunk house at the lake , in between there are tea houses where you could stay , but camping is more pleasant and certainly more reliable .
you will want to take home one of these creations .
poet ghyasuddin had designed the verses on the tombstone , while ismail khan afridi of turkey was the dome maker .
fishing for trout and bass remains the number one attraction in arkansas waters , boating , sailing , swimming , skiing , scuba diving and snorkeling are also popular .
kullu among all hill stations in india enjoys a special significance , as it is the hub of himalayan adventure sports activities .
specialist equipment such as ropes is often used to protect climbers from falls .
today , one out of three arizonans live in booming phoenix and tucson .
lakeside cottage , the real reason to stay at cottages is the stunning natural lake , tamdil ; the name literally meaning the lake of mustard plant .
the best time to visit amritsar is between november and march when the weather is very pleasant .
in 1894 , phuket was promoted to be a monthon administrative unit under the supervision of the central administrative body ( located in bangkok .
tourism is the third most important industry , with many visitors drawn to the badlands , the international peace garden , and reservoirs that offer recreational opportunities .
forest rest houses here are deluxe bungalows and also have the dormitory option .
the base of the statue was about 6 . 5 m ( 20 ft ) wide and 1 . 0 meter ( 3 ft ) high . the height of the statue itself was 13 m ( 40 ft ) , equivalent to a modern 4-story building .
on a hillock to the north is the shrine of lord dattatraya , the three heads representing brahma , vishnu and maheshwara .
`` sand boxes `` and hydraulic jacks - replaced after use by permanent wedges - allowed the metal girders to be positioned to an accuracy of one millimeter .
blue sheep restaurant , mg marg has a bunch of restaurant serving popular sikkimese dishes .
the inexpensive eating places are in taj gang , around the taj mahal .
as a result of such heroic deeds , noble titles were granted to chan and muk as thao thep krasattri and thao si sunthon respectively .
he stayed in kashmir for nearly two years , studied sanskrit and hindu scriptures at the feet of learned men here .
built in the early - 1600s , the church of saint paul , has an impressive white walled facades that gives way to interiors that features a superbly carved wooden alter and well sculpted statues of the saints .
however , although chhang is the unofficial national drink , it is not officially available .
while in gilgit , skardu and chitral , a l.o./m.g. shall stay with a party in the premises in which it is staying. in this case he shall share food , accommodation and transport with the party .
mount abu is the only hill station of rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the aravalli range .
we welcome you to kurukshetra , the seat of ancient indian civilization , the land where the vedas were written .
8 kms from almora is the , nestling amidst fir and pine forests .
the lovely cherai beach , situated in vypeen , is just a 15 minute ferry ride from fort-kochi. .
the mughals in northern india have given to india several fascinating forts and palaces .
the main markets of jaipur , from where you can buy some useful items are along jauhari bazar , bapu bazar , nehru bazar , chaura rasta , tripolia bazar and m.i. raod .
in both villages , the residents live with their proteges , training them and putting on fascinating shows .
when added to soups , it thickens the liquid and gives it a pungent taste ; when pickled , it is , well , an acquired taste. nose around for tasty , if not exactly aromatic , fish , chicken and pork pickles .
all manner of second-hand goods are sold here , but the place to go is the book bazaar , where second-hand books are available at unbelievably low prices .
this is the place where the british deported the freedom fighters who caused them too much trouble .
the bus leaves from the clock tower near the golden temple at 8 am and returns around 5 pm hari ke pattan on the outskirts of the city is a popular picnic spot .
the temples of ummaneshwar and jagannath in the grounds of this palace are open to all .
sea canoe expeditions are running all year round , although the rains from june to october can inhibit operations .
it measures 4 . 57 meters in height and 6 . 10 meters in length .
the local archaeological museum has some fine specimens of carvings from the area including a collection of lajjagauri images .
another temple in bihar , india that is worth visiting during your temple tours to bihar , india is the parasnath temple .
nagaland grows a lot of pineapple and the simple and delicious pineapple stew ( pineapple cooked in sugar and water ) is a great way to end a traditional naga spread .
choose from the cosy cottages on hillsides or rooms that overlook a fort , whatever the option , the memories will be pleasant .
surakarta , better known as solo , is the cradle of javanese culture in the province .
the outline is then painted with the combination of chalk powder and gum arabica , before gold foil is used to the opulence of the painting .
the banqueting house later became the scene of king charles i 's execution .
vidhana soudha is located at the northern boundary of cubbon park , this majestic building , with a total plinth area of over 5 , 00 , 000 sq. ft is built in a neo-dravidian style .
with their elongated , twisted forms , they are reminiscent of indus valley civilization artifacts .
20 km . founded in 1787 by the east india company , the main attraction of the 273-acre gardens being the banyan tree , largest in the world .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
the drill , choreographed with aggressive posturing and saber-rattling , draws loud cheers from spectators on both sides .
a household staple , ningro chhurpi is not widely available in restaurants , but if you choose a home stay , you can usually sample it .
conveniently located near mumbai s domestic airport , the hotel is built on strictly ecological principles .
the barhut asokan rock edict ( bc 250 ) in pali written in the brahmi script is one of the most important exhibits .
the shire is famous as it contains a strand of hair of the prophet muhammad .
the maharaja also donated 100 kilos of gold for the temple , which was added on to the surface as plating , and gave the temple its name .
nakuchia tal is another lake , which deserves a mention in the pantheon of water bodies in nainital , the famous hill station in india .
river beas and its thunderous gushes are also perfect places for river rafting in certain stretches .
tea plantations are also part of munnar , which is a hill station of note in kerala india .
another great place to shop in kohima , is belho weavers , where you ll find lovely mementos and yes , shawls .
the connoisseur gave up his post around 1914 to build this vast collection of indian european scuplpures , persian carpets , chinese jade and japanase procelain .
celebrated at the end of the month of magha ( in january-february ) , magha naun festival marks the return of the gods to earth from heaven .
bus services also connect amritsar with most north indian towns , including chandigarh ( 235 kms ) , delhi ( 450 kms ) , shimla , kulu , manali , dharamshala and dalhousie in himachal pradesh , dehradun and rishikesh in uttar pradesh and jammu .
what the u .s . inherited was a wilderness sparsely dotted with settlements of native indian people , african americans , and spaniards .
badami , today a sleepy little town on a red sandstone ridge , was once the capital of the great chalukyan empire that controlled most of peninsular india between the 4th and 8th centuries ad .
a famous greek philosopher , claudius ptolemy , was the first person who mentioned the cape in his book written in the year 157 .
just beyond the tip of the land lies a huge rock on which is built the vivekananda memorial .
this ancient temple is an important center of sun worship in assam , india .
if you arrive in singapore without prior hotel reservations , the sha counters at the singapore changi airport can help you with hotel bookings .
on the 23 , 000 square-metre site are five blocks of building housing and shophouses , restored to their original 19th century style .
the area surrounding solan in very rich in peas , tomatoes ginger and beans .
people flock here not just for great music , but also for well-priced inebriation. two of the best places to let your hair down on any day of the week .
the first motor vehicle driven directly from bangkok arrived in chiang mai in 1932 .
the chaugan is the heart and hub centre of all activities in chamba .
in 1854 , the kansas-nebraska act was passed by congress , organizing the nebraska territory .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deities lord vishnu and lord shiva .
sea face road has some of the daman s most popular restaurants at hotels such as the gurukripa and svereign , most frequented by uot-of-towners. .
the simplicity of the tribal people and the untamed profusion of nature make you feel like you are in a time warp .
native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 836. hispanics , who may be of any race , are 5.5 percent of the people .
baluchari saris come with different names in various designs ther s simple taant , light-as-feathers tangail and the intricate and rich dhakai jamdani .
the building of the akal takht was begun by guru arjan dev and completed in 1609 by guru hargobind .
as a traveler , you will have an impact on the environment and culture of the place you are visiting .
known as kuthu vilakku , the brass lamps are used for pujas , and also for decoration .
there are now new plans to house a giant shopping and leisure complex with a 32-screen cinema , inside the shell of the building , due to open in 2001 .
finished with hot jalebis , swirls of syrup-doused concoctions fried in sinful quantities of ghee .
the most important ruler of this dynasty was maharaja avanti-verman. .
in colonial days , the state was part of a vast region that charles i , king of england , granted to sir robert heath in 1629 .
the site india travels destinations offers you details regarding tours to historical monuments in and around kushinagar in bihar , india .
in mizoram your banking options will be far less than in the other states .
it s all waiting to be explored .
it ll fetch you three decent meals , a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides .
the carpeted wooden floors. high ceilings and huge windows with views of the cedar forest and surrounding peaks are sure to induce a happy sense of well-being. .
parasailing in india as an important facet of adventure tourism in india can give a never experienced high to a daring tourist who will rarely ever find such a spine tingling experience in any other out door indulgence he has ever undertaken .
india gate is a majestic arch , 42 meter high , is a war memorial in honor of the indian soldiers who died during the first world war .
apart from beating ( pifa ) and casting ( dhokra ) , a third kind of metal work uses residual material and hence is more flexible ; it is found in the shape of flapping fishes and writhing snakes .
the holy sangam is the site for annual magha mela / ardh kumbh / kumbh mela .
it is an occasion not to be squandered so that one can avail of the tours to ooty provided by the india travel destinations reminding the interested enthusiasts that ooty is a primary hill station in india worth more than a singular visit packed with its evocative sylvan environs .
for those seeking peace and quiet , away from the madding crowds , there are several beautiful tibetan monasteries holding ancient treasures , japanese temples , and stunning sunrises over the snowy khangchendzonga .
the restaurant is housed in the erstwhile ballrooms of the mysore palace , with a sky high baroque ceiling with domed sky lights and white wedgwood decor .
it is already a popular honeymoon destination for the moon gazing newly weds .
the kheer bhawani temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india .
it is the last territory in indonesia to be held by the british. fort marlborough , constructed in 1762 , is a castle with gatehouse that contains old gravestones with english inscription .
an oasis of tranquility in the heart of the bangalore , rejuve the spa , at the grand ashok , is a beautiful synthesis of indian , european and oriental influence .
for aweek people from all walks of life , and age be damned , fly kites with abandon , creating patches of every imaginable color in the blu sky above .
many reconstructions such as that by h . f . von erlach depicted the facade with a four-column porch which never existed .
swabhumi is quite an unmatched experience .
a remarkable image amongst the exhibits is a 12th century shiva parvati from khajuraho .
over the centuries , almoras has retained its preeminence as a cultural and administrative centre and an important market town for the region .
serene and quiet this tiny little village , holiest among holy places is bodhgaya , where the quest of prince siddharth was fulfilled after years of seeking the truth and saga of buddha began .
jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters .
during summer festival boat races , boat pageantry , dog show etc . , add more festivity to the celebration .
a tome when royal patronage attracted thousands of artisans and architects to cahampaner , where they stayed to build temples water tanks , landscape gardens , and granaries to stock the bounty from each season s harvest .
enter and you will see a ghost city of palaces , temples residential precincts agricultural structures and water installation , each telling its fascinating story about a bygone era .
louisiana has been governed under 10 different flags beginning in 1541 with hernando de soto 's claim of the region for spain .
the fort dates back to the time of the qutub shahi kings , though its origin has been traced to earlier periods , to the reign of the yadavas and later the kakatiyas .
the government 's policy on tourism for the past years has been gearing towards more and more sustainable tourism development with emphasis on community participation , safety of tourists and non-exploitation. .
the main cities of significant value are madras , cochin , bangalore , hyderabad , bombay and coimbatore. these cities are of significant importance in each aspect .
this is also the place of the famous javanese temples of borobudur .
trendier is frock brokers , an independent boutique , the emporium , essential music in creek road or decomania in college approach specializing in 1920s - 1970s furniture .
until recently , assam was out of bounds for the traveler .
the tin mining industry has gradually failed to generate economic growth in phuket , especially after 1985 when the price of tin fell by half .
sample authentic konken cuisine & solkadhi , bangda , pomfret , curry , modak , rice , chapattis , dishes with jackfruit , kokam sherbet and , of course , the world famous devgad alphonso .
national parks & monuments include big cypress reserve , biscayne , dry tortugas , everglades , castillo de san marcos , fort matanzas .
each of the 18 , 000 pieces used to construct the tower were specifically designed and calculated , traced out to an accuracy of a tenth of a millimeter and then put together forming new pieces around five meters each .
be it the wet and picturesque paddy fields of kottayam which are located at a sea level which is lower than the rest of kerala or the spice land of munnar , idukku and lakkidi .
the andaman and nicobar islands were shrouded in mystery for centuries because of their inaccessibility .
from ross hill there were excellent views of the ship building yard and the port channel , which was the entrance of the harbor for ships and liners .
shravanabelagola is a famous jain pilgrimage with a 17m high monolith of lord bahubali standing tall .
it appears that this pretty water palace was built by a defiant prince jagat ii in 1734 as a pleasure retreat , away from his father maharana sangram singh ii ( 1716-1734 ) .
a 500 mts long ski lift carries skiers back to the slope top , thus saving them the trouble and time to bridge up wearing long skis .
from the earliest buildings that are characterized by simplicity of design to later intricate structures like the meguti temple , the evolution of the dravidian style is apparent in the various architectural styles of the aihole ruins .
ruth s and haralu emporia , dimapur , these two are special shops , and just because you find traditional handicrafts here , shawls in particular .
built by rana kumbha in mid 15th century , kumbhalgarh is the second most important bastion of mewar , after chittaurgarh .
shawl are extremely warm and woman have a way of draping them that is quite different from the way they are worn in the north. wear them your own way .
all the metal pieces of the tower are held together by rivets , a well-refined method of construction at the time the tower was constructed .
jakarta is the center of the nation 's industrial , political and cultural life. it is home to many of the country 's finest research institutes , educational facilities , and cultural organizations .
there are tharus , yadavas , satar , rajvanshis and dhimals in the terai region. the brahmans , chhetris and thakuris are spread generally over all parts of the kingdom .
this is symbolic of the openness of sikhism and indicates that followers of all faiths are allowed inside .
the british influences are visible in all the presidency towns of mumbai , calcutta , chennai and new delhi .
there are two direct trains to / from mumbai as well as a daily train to hyderabad in neighboring andhra pradesh .
the town is built around the banks of the man made ana sagar lake .
you can find out about these at tourist centres in kohima .
bhimakali temple sarahan-history of himachal pradesh .
the main entrance to the dargah , the nizam gate is of 70 feet height , it was constructed by the nizam of hyderabad .
visitors will find the ruins of the once powerful vijayanagar empire , the sculpted wonders of belur and halebid , the awesome mausoleum of bijapur and much more within easy reach .
designed by sir william emerson , the architect of the victoria memorial in calcutta , the outstanding feature of this church is its vivid stained glass windows .
the chutia temple is an important temple site in the chotanagpur region of bihar , india .
the boat race held in the backwaters of karala is another event that just should never be missed .
chennai vedanthangal bird sanctuary is 85 kms from chennai .
the gem state , famous potatoes , idaho was named by invented by george m. willing , who unsuccessfully sought to become a delegate from what would become the territory of colorado .
due to its many wetlands and its strategic location on the north south bird migratory path , gujarat is a birder s paradise .
deogarh is of great antiquarian , epigraphical and archaeological importance and has been integral to the history of the guptas , the gurjara-pratiharas , and the gondas , the muslim rulers of delhi , the marathas and the british .
intricately carved and shaped into everything from pen stands and cigar pipes to complex decorative piece and , the most exquisite , an image of a stork , this tribal crafts is worth checking out .
cochin is basically a collection of islands and narrow peninsulas and can be divided into ernakulam , willingdon island , mattancherry and fort kochi .
these andaman and nicobar islands are the paragon of beauty and present a landscape full with scenic and picturesque extravaganza .
kentucky produces more thoroughbred foals than any other state in the u .s . .
on september 18 1884 eiffel registered a patent `` for a new configuration allowing the construction of metal supports and pylons capable of exceeding a height of 300 meters .
the rate invariably goes up during peak season , especially during the fairs at the sangam .
other favourites include the seasonal strawberries with cream and ice cream and the mint chocolate fudge .
history lessons teach us that kunjan nambiar , the popular poet from lakkidi , the hill station in india followed the tenets of natya shastra , a treatise on dance compiled in 2nd century b.c. .
then , the story goes that the saint and manu went on making a big vessel as the fish warned them of a gigantic deluge , which was soon to take over mankind .
thrissur in the late 18th and early 19th centuries was the capital of the great king sahktan thampuran , who is cedited with designing the city and transforming it into a cultural centre .
a team of four men was needed for each rivet assembled : one to heat it up , another to hold it in place , a third to shape the head and a fourth to beat it with a sledgehammer .
kufri is an important tourist place because of its closeness with shimla .
this hideous looking building ( though a great many people are fond of it ) has been listed and so should be safe from demolition .
colorado ranks first among all states in ski-able acres and is home to nearly 50 natural hot springs .
there is a tourist dictionary written for ordinary citizens .
the sas bahu temple and teli ka mandir in madhya pradesh , india are very famous tourist destinations and you must make sure that you visit these temples during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
close by the king built taragarh , the very first hill fort in india .
during the reign of king rama v , ubon ratchathani was annexed to lao kao town .
rendezvous is one of the better restaurant on the mall and the place to head for when you re hankering for some thai food .
the illuminated `` fairy fountain `` and the elegant graeco - colonial style buildings add to the beauty of cubbon park .
in addition to daily wages , a party shall provide to a porter free rations money in lieu of rations , as fixed by the government , from the day he is engaged till the day he is discharge .
the mahua tree is for chhittisgarh what potatoes are for russians .
agra is famous for handicrafts products such as inlay work on marvel , leatherwork , footwear , and brass wear , carpets , jewelry , zari and embroidery work .
this three storied prison , constructed by britishers in 1906 , is a pilgrimage destination for freedom fighters .
you can choose from an astonishing range of intricate design .
shirish and manoj samant , the brothers who own the restaurant called as adinarayan bhojanalaya , contributes to the cooking themselves , especially when the large eatery fills up .
the rajasansi airport , about 11 kms from town , is connected by domestic flights to delhi , srinagar and chandigarh .
middle mississippi indians , who succeeded the woodland indians , built large earthen mounds and developed complex urban areas .
over the years this mosque was destroyed thrice due to fire and was reconstructed again .
cascading down the cliff is a spectacular waterfall , which at the bottom feeds a natural pool called the saptakunda .
perched on undulating terrain of low coastal hills near the southern edge of the indian mainland , clean and green , thiruvananthapuram , which was previously called trivandrum , is an ancient city with trading tradition dating back to 1000 bc .
for a thick , richly flavoured and decidedly ni on vegetarian twist on humble khichdi , order a plateful of haleem , a split pea , wheat and meat concoction .
india travel destination enables a winter sports for an enthusiast and an adventurous soul who is into outdoor sports to avail of the opportunity which kullu provides to tourists with a yen for skiing , trekking , etc .
all 12 suites beautifully decorated with antique furniture , stretched linens and striking artwork are clustered around a lovely little swimming pool .
from the arched portico to the octagonal rooms with rows of windows and ventilators with tiled sun shades and antique furniture , the hotel oozes elegance .
according to historical records this ancient temple was destroyed in the 16th century and was reconstructed in the 17th century .
the tour guide , india travel destination offers a series of package tours to the enthusiasts to undertake adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference .
the government museum , mathura originally founded by f .s . growse in 1874 , is today one of the leading centres for research , study and the preservation of mathura s splendid heritage of art .
you will find the rich greenery of the kullu valley along with bare , brown mountains , glaciers and snowfields .
learn about your destination before you get there and read guidebooks , travel articles , histories , and / or novels by local authors and pay particular attention to customs such as greetings , appropriate dress , eating behaviors , etc .
the journey which lasts one week , begins at chattrapati shivaji station in mumbai , and covers ganapatiphule , ratnagiri , sindhudurg , goa , pune , aurangabad , ajanta and ellora and nasik before returning to mumbai .
of the nearly 500 akbari buildings built in the bengal and gujarati traditions only a few have survived , arrayed in a band on the riverfront .
thailand has some of the most exciting gamefishing sites in asia especially along the andaman seacoast of phuket and krabi provinces .
all the elements were prepared in eiffel s factory located at levallois-perret on the outskirts of paris .
the wild orchids is a world unto itself peaceful and isolated , separated from the sea by the stretches of white sand , the cottages made of bamboo and wood , have four poster beds with colorful drapes .
situated picturesquely in the heart of chotanagpur at an altitude of 2 , 140 ft. above sea level ranchi is the nucleus of the region .
kanak vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in jaipur .
all eateries of chhappan bazaar sell the most delectable pao bhaji ( with oodles of butter ) , samosas , aloo tikki and chaat , all in atypical malwa style .
in the gangtok , the restarant at the family-run hotel netuk house is a good bet .
a heavy brocade paithani takes at least 6 months to complete and costs over rs 50 , 000 , while an ordinary paithani sari takes about a month to complete and costs between rs 8 , 000 and rs 15 , 000. .
as an expression of gratitude , akbar shifted his capital to the new city which was build between 1569 and 1585 .
from here , you can trek up to the hills , or go on excursions to the tribal villages in the vicinity .
look for tiny , picturesque villages , acquaint yourself with different people & and their lifestyle .
this old fort was built by sher shah in the 16th century .
picnic breakfast can be arranged for the morning safari around the park .
4 km away is the built in bengali hut style architecture in 1501 , a ` shaktipeeth ( power of the female goddess .
53km to the south of agartala is the water palace , built in 1930 in the middle of rudrasagar lake .
also to be found here is the theatre museum packed full of theatrical memorabilia from the last 300 years .
the responsible form of tourism and tourism development , which encourages going back to natural products in every aspect of life , is also the key to sustainable ecological development .
bandipur tiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , presents a must grab opportunity to the travelers and journeyman to seek out nigiri hills .
sightseeing the most famous monument in aurangabad is the bibi ka maqbara , the mausoleum of mughal emperor aurangzeb s queen .
the monument itself stands on a raised platform with four minarets in the corners .
the temple is quite like a mound and according to historical records the lowest level of this temple site was constructed during the gupta rule .
where lord krishna gave the gita updesh , making action greater than the reward of though thereof .
streching from the foothills of the mighty bukit barisan mountain range in the west sumatra to bangka and belitung island in the east , south sumatra province is relatively flat but very fertile , with numerous rivers cutting across the landscape and meandering their way to the sea .
montana 's scenic beauty and vast empty spaces have made tourism the second biggest industry .
the kullu valley begins at aut on the northern end of the gorge in the dhaula dhar , cut by the river beas at larji , above mandi .
a comfortable pair of walking shoes and a back pack / valise for the short trips to animal sanctuaries / excursions is a good idea .
kullu is also famous for its handicrafts and woolens like shawl , caps , puhla , namdas and patoos .
you can buy jewellery , animal shapes or abstract curios , all of which are available in a variety of design .
the state is an ideal getaway for the traveler tired of overcrowded hill stations and beaches .
the area called as nirvana has a few intriguing attractions ; the bababundagiri cave , once the abode of the sufi saint hazrat dada hayat mir kalander ; the mulangiri peak , the highest in the state , and if you are lucky , you ll see corvia , a mountain flower that blooms once every 14 years .
along with nellora vepudu ( fish fry ) , don t miss the wholesome jonne ( jowar roti ) with gongura mamsam . it is as close as you can get to tasting ambrosia .
south dakota is located in the northern great plains an is bordered by north dakota on the north , minnesota & iowa ( east ) , nebraska ( south ) , and wyoming & montana ( west ) .
i like to buy elegant mangalagiri handloom products from mangalgiri village itself , for ethnic handbags i go to the various malls and handicraft centers .
river rafting in india is carried out in varied spots of the order of kumaon .
pick up lots of brassware for your home from shops throughout moradabad , which is especially known for its coloured enamelling and intricate etchings .
the valley was again invaded by a mongal and turk invader achalla , but the queen defeated him , and drove away all the foreign troops .
the corbyn s beach offers the ideal gateway for those feeling from the clamorous city , for the followers of bacchus , there is a cosy and well stocked sea slip bar , close to the beach .
india has been a bit slow into commercially exploiting its rich natural heights , waterfalls and galactic glaciers and marketing its old world bounties to the new world enthusiasts .
the ashoka pillar has several edicts and a persian inscription of emperor jahangir in scripted on it .
windsurfing has become one of thailand s most popular water sports in the last two decades , and it is practiced all over thailand s beaches .
apart from the extremely tempting menu choices there is an excellent wine list ( sensibly priced ) obviously selected by someone with knowledge .
as the mekong region increases in its exposure and popularity , these parks will experience an increased number of visitors in search of quality eco-tours. .
the cuisine in it s restaurants of this regal hotel is known for being delicious and exquisitely crafted prepare for a wonderful culinary experience .
it s little fussy about testing guests stay more than two nights , so check before booking .
in fact , pakistan s towering northern frontiers bestow upon this country the most endowed mountain region on earth , making it the only country to boast of literally all of the highest mountain ranges of the world .
set in 250 acres of verdant lawns and fields , this luxurious retreat , jhira bagh palace , is ideally situated for visit to dhar fort , mandu , the bagh caves , and the temple of maheshwar and omkareshwar .
beautiful architecture , wood-panelled interiors , a large courtyard , huge trees , and water gurgling down columns-the ananda krishna van offers you a very peaceful , quite stay in madhuban .
dry , searing winds heat up the ground and make it difficult to venture outdoors .
african music was introduced during the colony 's first century and was enriched by its contact with iberian music .
the sankaragaurisvara temple is one monument that you must pay a visit during your tours to historical monuments in kashmir , india .
as you circle the town by air or come in by train at howrah station , the bridge dominates .
in some of the northern counties , hispanics constitute a large majority of the population , and in some parts of new mexico , spanish is the primary language .
the 1970 election was a turning point in colombia 's recent history .
the illumination in the evenings gives the beach an irresistible air of glamour .
the indian subcontinent perhaps had the largest network of rivers in the world .
balance also determines the value of strength by how much energy you spend actually climbing sheer rock faces , ideal for rock climbing , can be found in many areas .
taj chandigarh , sector 17 a , is undoubtedly the best stay option in the city , certainly located with some great , popular restaurants .
udaipur - the first city of the erstwhile mewar kingdom conjures up dazzling vignettes of rajasthan 's legendary regal splendour chivalry and romance , battles royal and dizzy court intrigues .
the rambhar stupa is an important pilgrimage site that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region .
the idol is shown to be carrying a cooking pot that signifies the fact that the deity is the goddess of sustenance and prosperity .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
soon a sizable minority of yankees grew , dominating the merchant class and entering into important positions in the political and social structure .
built of teakwood and bamboo poles , they are fascinating to see .
cochin is also famous for export of fisheries , spices , coconuts , cardamoms , tea , and rubber .
lossar is celebrated in buddhist areas throughout the state in february , but lahaul s monasteries have some of the most spectacular performances you will ever see .
in 1774 , britain passed the quebec act , making wisconsin part of the province of quebec .
the gateway is inscribed with verses from the koran , the lettering of which appear the same size through an illusion created by the craftsmen who enlarged and lengthened the letters at different positions .
also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize .
this temple was never completed but the ruins give us a definite picture of the kind of architectural skills of the medieval times .
over the centuries , the golden sand stone fortress witnessed many battles between the bhattis , the mughals and the rathors of jodhpur .
varanasi is supposedly one of the oldest indian cities and is known for its ghats and ancient temples .
the central market , sojati gate , station road , sardar market , tripollia bazaar , mochi bazaar , lakhera bazar are some of the best shopping place in jodhpur .
chandigarh is located in foothill of the shivalik hills as a gateway to the himalayas , it is one of india s success stories-it is veritable tourist s paradise .
joao vi appointed him inspector to the royal chapel , a body which had more than 100 instrumentalists and singers , many of whom were foreigners .
even if you make the mistake of missing the mela , check out the permanent bazaar in surajkund where master craftsmen from across india put up their talents on show in a traditional haat setting .
these marvel of carvings built between 11th and 13th century a.d. are dedicated to the jain tirthankars .
the mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of bhandeshwar & sandeshwar temples .
an enormous crazy horse memorial is being sculpted in the black hills .
shanti vana is the cremation site of jawaharlal nehru .
modern aurangabad retains an islamic ambience and still retains an old world charm veiled women ( in burkhas ) move about in the chowk area , the call of the muezzin can be heard over the din and bustle of traffic , and come friday , large crowds veer towards the mosques for ritual prayers .
for over three centuries thereafter , ajmer faced turbulent times changing hands over and over again as one warlord succeeded another .
discover the beauty of non metallic ornaments in andamans .
on diwali , the festival of lights , in october / november every year a large fair is held here .
the fur trade flourished despite the 50-year war between the fox and the french , and the historic fox-wisconsin portage was used by generations of traders from green bay and prairie du chien in their search for beaver and other furs .
the temple of lord brahma 's first wife .
set in extensive manicured lawn usha kiran palace , a regal 120 year old building , with ornate stone , carved interiors , marble staircase , sandstone filigree work screens and arched doorways , is built grace fully around a vast central courtyard , where you can spend many a meditative afternoon .
the monarch realized its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north india and also built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy sangam .
border disputes between chile and bolivia have been a recurrent element in chile 's history ever since .
the location of fatehpur sikri was also appropriate for discussions and deliberations that the emperor had with religious leaders , statesmen , writers and philosophers .
buddhism was introduced to this region during the reign of the powerful mauryan emperors and its rapid acceptance is evident in the profusion of buddhist cave temples found in and around modern aurangabad .
the monastery was built in the mid-1970 at durpin dara and consecrated by the dalai lama .
people shoot arrows at a picture of ravana , to signify the victory of the gods over demons .
invest some time in combing in the place and hunt for small market that hide many gems .
here , on 13th april , 1919 british troops led by general dyer fired upon a group of assembled people , including women and children .
other places worth a visit include , nakoda mosque , kali temple , marble temple and rabindra sarovar making kolkata as a major honeymoon destination in india for the honeymooners in india .
the horse marwari the desert horse of rajasthan .
the state capital is lincoln , other major cities or towns include omaha , bellevue , grand island , kearney , fremont , hastings , north platte , norfolk and columbus .
khwaja saheb is the landmark of ajmer and one of the holiest of muslim shrines in the country .
uttar pradesh shares international boundaries with nepal and china and is surrounded by the indian states of himachal pradesh , haryana , rajasthan , madhya pradesh and bihar .
central kalimantan is one of the biggest provinces in indonesia with area total 153564 km2 or one-third from total kalimantan island , or equal to java and madura island. central kalimantan is one of the biggest provinces in indonesia with area total 153564 km2 or one-third from total kalimantan island , or equal to java and madura island .
the chalets , is scenically located resort consists entirely of scandinavian-style log huts right next to the famous nine-hole naldehra golf course .
climbers are not oblivious to heights .
jawahar balabhavana - bal bhavan whizzes you into childhood .
car drivers must pay toll charges on arrival and departure from the tuas checkpoint ( sgd 3.70 per trip ) but only on departure at the woodlands checkpoint ( sgd 1.20 per trip .
the hari parbat fort is located on top of a hill was the summer retreat of the mughal emperors .
as a territory of the united states , florida was particularly attractive to people from the older southern plantation areas of virginia , the carolinas , and georgia , who arrived in considerable numbers .
at the end of the 18th century , king taksin the great regrouped the thais in the south and finally drove the burmese out with the help of king kawila of lampang thereby regaining thai independence from burma .
the daman jetty area is a hot favourite among travelers and locals seeking chaat , bhel and pau bhaji .
one of the factors that have gone in to make bangalore the fifth largest city in india today is its mild and healthy climate .
pattaya is 147 kilometers from bangkok and lies parallel to sukhumvit road on its east and the coastline on its west .
this was later changed to phatthaya , which happens to mean the wind blowing from the southwest to the northeast at the beginning of the rainy season .
pochampally the tiny village is a home to weaver who uses the ikat ( tie or dye ) method to make pochampalli saris and fabric colors and bold geometrics patterns .
and the romance heightens , as camels majestically wend their way through the golden sands .
and we re back to pork ! all of meghalaya seems to sublsist on the meat , which is called dohsniang in the local language .
navahos are known as a pastoral people , grazing sheep , while the pueblo , who live in pueblos scattered across the state , are largely farmers .
rose garden was set up in the year 1995 to commemorate the 100th flower show of the botanical garden .
the site india travel destinations offers you tour booking and online reservation for tours to the temples of tamil nadu in south india .
you ll find it in any restaurant in meghalaya serving traditional dishes .
applique work , this traditional oriya handicraft comes in bold , colourful patterns , usually with flower , bird and animals motif .
the third of the gordon house is scandinavian in its minimalist decor and open spaces .
the central shiva is called unakoteshwara kal bhairava .
the eighteenth century novelist henry fielding lived in one of the houses overlooking the pond and handel is known to have composed in the area .
in 1792 , capt. robert gray , in the columbia , discovered the river named after his ship and claimed the area for the u .s . .
born near the headwaters of arizona s gila river in the mid 1820s , goyathlay ( ' one who yawns ' ) was a peaceful man who was transformed into a warrior when his family was massacred by mexicans .
the innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in jammu and kashmir , himachal pradesh and uttar pradesh are ideal for angling and trout fishing .
cordial and helpful , the tripuris also have a delicious cuisine to boast of .
khimsar experiences extreme climatic conditions with very hot summers and cold winters .
a governor as a high rank heads central java province ; central java consists of 35 regencies and municipalities .
in winters , one can indulge in the winter sports like skiing and tobogganing .
points of interest include fort sumter national monument , fort moultrie , fort johnson , and aircraft carrier uss yorktown in charleston harbor ; the middleton , magnolia , and cypress gardens in charleston ; cowpens national battlefield ; the hilton head resorts ; and the riverbanks 200 and botanical garden in columbia .
the kaptain s retreat , sector 35b , hotel is partly owned by the city s best known resident , kapil dev , is reason enough for some people to stay here .
surrounding the market are hundreds of shops , bars and restaurants which make the area buzz with vitality .
peacocks adorn the tample walls , as they are believed to be the vehicle of goddess saraswati - the consort of lord brahma .
inspirational faith gave birth to classic forms of thai religious arts. images of the lord buddha sculptured during the sukhothai era are cultural treasures which impart a feeling of peace and serenity .
occupied for almost 700 years the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
the jaipur vintage car rally held annually in the month of january has become a big draw for car lovers , sports lovers , vintage beauty lovers and tourists alike .
they were a success , steadfastly lifting the tourists up to the second floor until the late eighties .
thakur onkar singh , 17th direct descendant of prince karamsi , the current owner and chief added a regal wing in the 1940 's for himself .
climb to the top of the hill , and you will be confronted by the ruins of sturdy fortress built by the rajput kings centuries ago .
eighteen rivers are prime floating spots , including america 's first national river , the pristine buffalo river .
scenic waterfalls law s falls and st. catherine falls and fine vantage points with breathtaking views and amusing names like lamb s rock , dolphin s nose and lady canning s seat dre popular picnic spots .
the lingaraja temple in bhubaneshwar in orissa , india is another important tourist destination that you must not miss during your temple tours to orissa in east india .
the best time to be at bheemeshwari is , between november and february .
the third week of march every year , aurangabad dons the mantle of host and gears up for an ellora festival of music and dance .
' all through this hour , lord by my guide , that by thy power , no foot shall slide . ' the clock plays the first line at a quarter past the hour , the first and second lines on the half hour , three lines at a quarter to and the whole lot on the hour .
today , most native americans live on the southern ute reservation and in the denver area .
the jagannath temple located in puri , orissa , india was constructed by the ruler of kalinga , anantavarman chodaganga though king ananga bhima deva constructed most of the temple structure that exists today .
french traders and missionaries who followed nicolet included radisson and groseilliers , marquette and joliet ( who discovered the upper mississippi ) , and aco and hennepin ( from la salle 's party .
try your hand at golf or learn a few coorgi cooking tips from rani aiyapa , known far and wide for her delicious dishes .
the panchakki is an interesting water powered flourmill built in the 17th century , an engineering masterpiece of its day .
average summer temperatures stand at around 38 c maximum and minimum temperatures of 27 c .
in 1778 british explorer captain james cook charted the washington coast and went ashore on vancouver island at nootka sound .
brindavan is an interesting place , and the sage has quite a few interesting aspects to his personalities .
in a nation that is almost entirely muslim , the kafir are unique ; they are pagans ( kafir means infidel ) with their own very original beliefs , customs and art forms .
not always does one stumble upon something that creates history , and that too of such magnificent proportions .
an engineer by training , eiffel founded and developed a company specializing in metal structural work , whose crowning achievement was the eiffel tower .
the most populous state of india with over 16 % the countries population ; uttar pradesh is the heartland of india .
varanasi has a huge export industry based on carpets made in the mirzapur bhadhoi belt and in silk and brocade fabrics .
vasco house sports the typical european glass paned windows and verandahs , characteristic of the times .
needless to say , nature has been exceedingly generous to madhya pradesh , making the state paradise for wildlife enthusiasts go on exciting tiger safaris in kanha , pench and banhdavgarh , or simply soak in the green beauty pachmarhi , the state s only hill station .
its name , legend says , is a variation of pharaoh 's island , but it is more likely that the name is greek in origin .
the evergreen state , washington was named by for president george washington by an eastern politician .
the hazratbal mosque an important islamic shrine that is located in the village of hazratbal that is located on the banks of the dal lake .
in 1989 , a four-ton service elevator was added ( also by otis ) helping to relieve the main elevators of excessive trips up and down .
towards the south west of jaipur , the state capital , ajmers main claims to fame is its fine academic institutions and its preeminence as a religious centre for both muslims as well as hindus .
16 . 5 km . from dakshineswar across the ganga , belur math is the international headquarters of ramkrishna mission .
khao phanom bencha national park is located 20 kilometers from krabi along talat kao-ban huai to road , the park covers a total area of 50 square kilometers including some parts of amphoe ao luk , amphoe khao phanom , and amphoe mueang .
the temples of khajuraho are brilliant example of medieval indian architecture .
there are no bars or pubs drinking are restricted to ones home or exclusive clubs .
dilli haat sees a wide variety of festivals celebrated amidst much joy and enthusiasm every year like ganesh utsav at the end of august , the deep utsav , celebrated in mid-october on the occasion of diwali and onam brings lavishly decorated elephants , when traditional dances from kerala are performed and the onam sadhyam is served and there s so much more .
other centers for metal craft include bangalore , shivarapatana , shravanbelagola and bidar .
kesar kulfi with faluda is practically synonymous with delhi .
most hotels have in house restaurants , which serve indian , chinese , thai and continental cuisine .
the lavish entertainment of their friends , ' the marlborough house set ' was legendary .
the bull temple is believed to have been constructed in the 16th century ad .
the innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in jammu and kashmir , himachal pradesh and uttar pradesh are ideal for angling and trout fishing .
it is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments .
the construction of taj mahal was started in ad 1632 and completed at the end of 1648 ad .
chug fa s food is definitely worth more than you pay for it and enjoy sumptuous servings of soups , noodles and steaming dumplings .
from the dawn to midnight , the stalls of naya bazaar are packed with people clamouring for the favourite gwalior breakfast ( and snack ) of o piping hot moong dal kachori , flavoured with amchur and fennel seeds and fried in plenty of hot ghee .
today , the massive castle still stands in bodrum , and the polished stone and marble blocks of the mausoleum can be spotted within the walls of the structure .
amidst all this stunning beauty , there live more than a dozen tribes , each with its own fascinating tapestry of socio-cultural variety .
often termed as a garden city , bangalore 's climate has also drawn towards itself a large number of industries like the hal and the indian telephone industry and has become image a premier manufacturing and commercial centre since the 1950s .
robert stuart returned from astoria and pioneered the oregon trail through wyoming in 1812-13. .
arizona was made a separate territory in 1863 , and more lands were acquired through the gadsden purchase in 1853 .
from the bird species found in the himalayas like pheasants and snow eagles to birds of prey and other avian species found in the plains like peafowl , nightingales , sparrows and owls .
haldighati is the place where the famous battle between rana pratap and the massive forces of the mughal emperor akbar was fought in 1576 ad .
bangalore is situated at an altitude of 920 metres above sea level .
there are some portraits of the rulers of jodhpur also displayed at jaswant thada .
on the small island of rhodes were three of these : ialysos , kamiros , and lindos .
the caves of ajanta can be classified into two distinct phases the earlier hinayana phase , in which the buddha was worshipped only in the form of certain symbols .
hot millions one of the popular restaurant in chandigarh has defined fast food dining in chandigarh for decades .
a white marble building with intricately carved lattice screens and engravings in mother of pearl , lapis lazuli and topaz .
best known for its terraced tea gardens that produce some of the world s finest tea and the one horned rhino that roams free in the kaziranga park , assam also boasts of numerous golf courses dotting the many tea estates .
the four poster beds and , mosaic furniture floors , antique mirrors and attached marble baths are all part of the royal experience .
viper island is a small island just at the harbor , and was infamous for being a prison for convicts .
the specialty of this daman jetty area is the jetty rolls , a local version of the popular kathi kebab rolls that is said to have been brought here by bengali cooks working at one of the hotels and adapted to local tastes .
kanheri caves : like those at ajanta , these caves were built as buddhist monasteries ( viharas ) and temples ( chaityas ) between the second and ninth centuries bc .
shankara gauriswara , the temple of buniar is located on the jhelum valley road that is located at a distance of two miles near rampur .
when the persians expanded their ancient kingdom to include mesopotamia , northern india , syria , egypt , and asia minor , the king could not control his vast empire without the help of local governors or rulers - - the satraps .
the occasion is navaratri , which celebrates the victory of good over evil , and is a time of dancing as much as of worship .
the nargisi kofta , which is actually hard boiled egg wrapped in mincemeat and deep fried and cut lengthwise and added to gravy .
dense rain forests and canopies of luxuriant green branches host a variety of birds , insects , and all kind of life .
this hill station in india is home to the pallyvasal hydel project and add to this meager qualification as a center of natural beauty , it has a liberal smattering of tea plantations , which a tour to chithirapuram would reveal .
the international eco-tourism society defines eco-tourism as `` responsible travel to natural areas that conserves the environment and improves the well-being of local people .
c ndido portinari ( 1903-1962 ) was one of the first brazilian artists to paint his way to international fame .
aurangabad offers a wide choice of dining options from the in house restaurants with extensive a la carte selections to vegetarian gujarati , hearty north indian and rich muslim cuisine in the city s many restaurants and cafes .
eiffel had thought about exploiting the image of the tower commercially himself , but faced with a general outcry from hordes of goods producers , he gave up his rights and let the image fall into the public domain .
handicrafts in stone , metal and shell are available at this small shop known as sarjan art gallery , near the main petrol pump .
punjabis are by nature street smart business people .
americans joined the battles for florida in 1803 , following their purchase of louisiana from the french .
rajghat : located near the banks of the yamuna river , rajghat is a serene monument. it marks the site where mahatma gandhi was cremated after his assassination .
chennai is also an international airport as well and is served by several international airlines including british airways , lufthansa , malaysian airlines , singapore airlines , airlanka , emirates , indian airlines , air india and a few others .
like ajanta , ellora has a number of magnificent masterpieces such as the kailashnatha temple .
brindavan gardens is the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors .
also see the fort of st. jerome in nani daman , an impressive structure that houses a church , cemetery and school .
in 1653 the first permanent settlements were established by english colonists from virginia near the roanoke and chowan rivers .
ayutthaya became the capital of thailand before thon buri and bangkok .
resort hoka is located near beautiful and quiet nagoa beach , this atmospheric little hotel s name comes from the hoka palms surrounding it .
western oklahoma was dominated by plains tribes , notably the kiowa , comanche and apache .
one has to take a bus for siliguri from kalimpong in order to visit this ropeway route .
manali is a small hill town in the valley of kullu .
a land blessed with pristine beaches , placid lagoons and thick green forests , orissa is also a melting pot of art , tradition and religion .
just behind the inn sits england 's oldest bowling green .
ayodhya is also famous for its close association with the epic ramayana .
later on , the indians migrated into the area and gradually spread out their culture , as evidenced in the discovery of ruins of ancient communities in tha chana and chaiya sub-districts. .
a large artificial lake created in the 12th century against a beautiful backdrop of hilly terrain .
kalimpong also offers pleasant hikes and walks through rice fields and tea fields around the town .
to protect society ladies of a delicate temperament , the collection of unsavory characters was kept distinct from the rest of the exhibition in an area known as ' the separate room .
and indeed jungle sounds will lull you to sleep in this wilderness retreat , pench jungle camp , located near pench national park , in avraghani village .
lord canning announced the transfer of power to the crown in 1858 in this city .
adding to the charms of khajjiar , which also hugs a golden-domed devi temple , is a golf course set in idyllic surroundings .
ahmedabads museums are also noteworthy the calico museum of textiles has one of the worlds finest collections of textiles , antique tapestries , wall hangings , costumes and antique looms .
the department of archaeology at ramshah path near singha durbar has to certify all metal statues , sacred paintings and similar objects before they are allowed to be sent or carried out of the country .
above helambu is a mountain pass through the lakes of gosainkunda reaching the valley of langtang .
these incessant feuds , civil wars , risings and upheavals greatly weakened hindu domination of kashmir .
trekking , mountaineering , white water rafting , wild boar hunting , mountain and desert jeep safaris , camel and yak safaris , trout fishing and bird watching , are a few activities , which entice the adventure and nature lovers to pakistan .
for architects , it meant even more : it was the tallest building on earth . and for scientists , it was the mysterious mirror that fascinated those most .
a perfect combination of romance and beauty , udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters , poets and writers .
genuine thangkas employ only vegetable or mineral dyes , and each colour has its own significance ; white stands for peace , gold represents enlightenment and red significance passion .
arunachal pradesh mainly consists of verdant mountainous ranges sloping to the plains of assam , and has the largest area in the north-east region .
the environment is really delicate in the himalaya region and the bio-diversity of the region has to be protected at all costs .
on the hammersmith bank are a number of handsome regency houses interspersed with riverside pubs and boathouses .
it is only accessible through a confusing rabbit warren of smelly underground tunnels , or by dicing with death crossing the road .
the ticket booth , situated across the road from the palace , opens at 09 : 45. .
this is the dram destination for anyone who wants to escape the cacophony of the clamourous city and soothe his freyed nerves and tired body .
kushinagar is of special historical importance and is a buddhist pilgrimage destination. this little town is located in a pastoral landscape and is located at a distance of 53 kilometers from gorakhpur in bihar , india .
the original palace was built by rja man singh and additions were made later by sawai jai singh .
the peace garden state , sioux , roughrider state , north dakota was named for the dakota tribe ; dakota is a sioux word meaning `` friends `` or `` allies . '' .
the temple is located at a distance of 3 kilometers from chandi ghat in haridwar , uttaranchal , india .
golconda fort is situated on the western outskirts of hyderabad .
you have mastered the basics ; you ll find boards and sails available everywhere , while you need wind to windsurf , you can get too much of a good thing .
therefore we have adequately accurate knowledge of its location and appearance .
duing the first month of the lunar calendar chaitra ( in march-april ) , falls ralli puja , a beautiful celebration when the unmarried girls of the village make small statues of shiva and parvati to worship through the month and then immerse in the river , praying for good husband .
hispanics , who may be of any race but in new mexico are primarily of mexican descent , represented 42.1 percent of the state 's population in 2000 .
the sunday brunch at zafraan laguna is turning out to be the biggest draw , so plan and look well in advance if you want to sample it .
the designs , however , are , typical to this hill state .
the cochin also has an outstanding network of road , rail , backwater , and a modern communication system .
palate sensations hopes to offer students more than just culinary knowledge and skill through its classes and workshops .
upon the fall of augusta in 1779 , the government was located temporarily at head s fort in wilkes county from february 1780 , to july 1781 .
there s all this much more. manipur is beckoning you to come and explore. you will never forget this vacation .
the aquarium located at the marina beach is open from 14.00 to 20.00 hours on week days and between 10.00 to 12.00 hours and 14.00 to 18.30 hours on sundays .
the annual desert festival takes place in january and february each year and is a riot of color and activity .
service apartments for long-term stay were unheard of in india before ahuja residency , golf links stepped in .
for bhopali nawabi cuisine at its best , try the shahnama in jehan numa palace , world heritage palace of bhopal royalty , for the yoghurt based kormas chicken nawabi and aromatic bhopali rizala , biryani and the khoya rich shahi tukra .
travelers anywhere must always carry essential items like a basic first aid kit with medicines like for general ailments like fevers , colds and coughs , cuts and scrapes as well as specific medication for allergies , insect and mosquito repellents etc all these are available in the city , so if you are caught without them don t worry too much , 24 hour chemists will help you out .
the kanheri caves are situated in the heart of the notional park .
there is little choice as far as eating out is concerned .
thanks to the rice bowl of champhai , rice dishes are a speciality here .
kannur also has the impressive portuguese citadel fort st. angelo , its bulk silhouetted against the arabian sea .
one of the oldest churches in kerala , the st mary 's church is believed to be one of the seven established by st thomas .
the temple served as both a marketplace and a religious institution .
a wedding trousseau in karnataka is usually incomplete without a sari with kasuti , while the emphasis is usually on the elaborately decorated pallu .
mehrangarh fort is considered one of india 's best forts ; this invincible stronghold of the marwars sits on a steep hill lording over a wonderful view of its surroundings .
hill stations in india , usually nestled amidst the hills and mountain ranges in the northern and the southern portion of the country , abound in large numbers .
the icy heights of the himalayas are the source of some of india 's mighty rivers .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
chail is an ideal getaway for fresh and tranquil environment in the lap of the nature .
one of the largest of its kind in bangalore , rejuve the spa is embellished with beautiful gardens .
of ayurveda 's many methods , using herbs , oils and medicinal plants , the kerala ayuraveda massage has gained international repute .
the two explorers , instructed to take special note of the geography and vegetation of the west , traveled down the columbia river and reached the pacific coast in 1805 .
butterfly park & insect kingdom s admission : adult $ 10 / child $ 6 .
then mount abu amongst the hill stations in india is also blessed with the historically important delwara temples and other archeological remains of note .
there are plenty of bars ; both in the hotels and in the licensed permit rooms .
with their intricately woven wicker baskets loaded with products from their farmland or homestead , you can make your choice from traditional crafts and woven textiles such as the intricately woven puan , the famous mizo shawl .
lingti is the one of the longest and largest valley of the spiti .
the andaman & nicobar are a group of picturesque islands , big and small , inhabited and uninhabited , a total of 572 islands , islets and rocks lying in the south eastern part of the bay of bengal .
for us , we can only wonder about the true appearance of the statue - - the greatest work in greek sculpture .
the bay is extremely sheltered ideal for expeditions of sea canoes to explore the many fascinating caverns with their own eco-systems. .
of the seven wonders of the ancient world , only one had a practical use in addition to its architectural elegance : the lighthouse of alexandria .
economy besides tourism , agra has also grown into an important centre for handicrafts and small industries .
other places like flora fountain , bombay natural history museum , hanging gardens , gateway of india are good places of tourism .
agra is also well known for petha , dalmoth and gajak .
simatai , this part of the wall is the best choice , for it is still in its original state without being developed into a popular tourist attraction due to its distance and little public transportation options .
india attained its freedom in 1947 and now it is a world s largest democratic country. india has about 26 states and 7 union territories .
on one side is st james 's park , leading to the horse guard 's parade ground .
originally called sudarshan garh , nahargarh offers a breathtaking view of jaipur .
ramgarh lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree covered hills .
all small restaurants make excellent nagamese food , a winning combination of naga and assamese cuisine .
motorcycle and bicycle safaris can also be done in every part of rajasthan .
alwar has one of the finest wild life sanctuaries in rajasthan sariska , which is an excellent tiger country .
in order to promote tourism in the north-east region , the governmant of india has decided to allow foreign tourists to visit nagaland .
the people of central java will welcome all of the tourists with hospitable and friendly .
umaid bhawan is fabulously maintained and contains within , the museum - a veritable treasure-trove of memorabilia showcasing the royal past of jodhpur .
located at the eastern end of zhongshi jie , fuan bridge was built in 1355 during the yuan dynasty .
although bolivia has entered an unprecedented era of political stability , it follows a record of 192 coups in the 156 years from independence to 1981 .
agartala agartala , the capital city of tripura , lies barely 2 km from the bangladesh border and 3 hours by road from dacca .
with a terrain that shifts from hill roads to forest tracks , desert trails to beach routes , india tests the mettle of both man and machine in motor rallies .
pattaya occupies an area of 208.1 sq. km. that is divided into 53.44 sq. kilometers of land and 154.66 sq. kilometers of islands and sea .
the anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by raja anaji sometime in the 1150 a.d. .
legend has it that akbar , who had no son , went to the sufi saint sheikh salim chishti to seek his blessings .
a heritage hotel will cost more than a deluxe while rtdc provides decent , clean accommodation at reasonable prices albeit with few frills .
uttarakhand is where india goes to get away from it all .
jaipur , also known as the pink city of india , was founded by maharaja jai singh ii ( 1693-1743 ) and is the capital of rajasthan .
shopaholics should give nature s bounty a royal ignore , and head straight to the luangmual handicrafts centre .
the town was originally known as ban samoe rieng , or ban laem hin ( stony point village .
hauz khas village , near green park , is a great place to while away a sunny winter afternoon .
for an illusion of living in the distant past , there s no better place than ahilya fort , the palace hotel within the maheshwar fort , where the venerated queen ahilyabai once lived .
for routes inside the inner line , the local district magistrate 's permission , or that of the central home ministry is necessary .
himachal is heaven for the nature lover , with an abundance of sanctuaries , parks , game reserves , oak , cedar and rhododendron forests , and stretches of apple orchards .
in nirmal town , adilabad district of andhra pradesh , there is a concentration of craftsmen known as nakash , whose traditional art is painting scenes from the hindu epics mahabharata and ramayana .
this lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region .
the island may be tiny but it is generously lined with golden beaches and delightful portuguese architecture .
thrissur the cultural capital of kerala , is dominated by the vadakkunath temple .
earlier , in 1803 , louisiana had become a part of the united states because of the region 's importance to the trade and security of the american mid-west. .
as there are different idd service providers in singapore , rates and access codes are dependent on the service provider used by hotel .
babar , the founder of the mughal dynasty in the 15th century , firmly established the popularity of polo .
among the almost 200 varieties , the meat pickles are especially delicious .
andrew-by-the-wardrobe ( so called because of it 's proximity to wardrobe court which used to house the king 's goods and chattels .
in the garden city you can visit the lal bagh with a variety of old trees , fountains , lotus pools , terraces and an assortment of tropical and sub-tropical herbs .
a tourist may bring in dutiable goods , such as tobacco and liquors , within the prescribed quantity free of duty. carrying narcotic , arms , ammunition are strictly prohibited .
while the temperature is hot all year round , it is best to visit caju island during the rainy season , between january and june when the lagoons are full , and best for swimming .
however , the windfall was largely squandered and ecuador has suffered persistent economic difficulties ever since .
awadhi cuisine is replete with various varieties of kebabs , and the tunde ke kebabs are arguable the most delicious .
brazilian folk dance and folk drama are rich forms of popular artistic expression .
it had the status of a union territory after independence till it was granted statehood in 1971 .
east java province consists of various communities such as javanese and maduranese with their culture , tradition and customs .
in a quaint village amazing chicken curry , exotic herbs and home ground masalas made it one the most divine experience .
the average lunchtime will see the streets filled with a seething mass of dark suits ; the health conscious scurry to find a quick bite from one of the many excellent sandwich bars , while the more choleric disappear into one of the countless dungeonesque wine bars or city pubs where daylight is an ugly word and a lunch hour can conclude well after sunset .
alabama s piney woods and grand old oak and magnolia trees range east to west from georgia to mississippi , north to south from tennessee to florida .
varkala beach is also a key hindu pilgrim centre with the ancient shree janardhan swamy temple .
india travel destinations , the site , provides a nature and wild life seeker with a golden opportunity to explore the natural delights offered , by undertaking a tour to chithirapuram , which is a less discovered hill station in india .
agra has good rail and bus connections with major indian cities .
all five coastal provinces , encompassing 640km ( 398 miles ) of coastline between them , have attractive beaches and plenty of hotels and resorts for tourists .
hyderabad is also famous for pearls and pearl jewellery .
wat khlong thom museum is situated within the compound of wat khlong thom between kilometer marker 69-70 on phetchakasem highway , one kilometer from the district office .
it is widely thought that buchan dreamt up the idea of using 39 steps at a time when he was recovering from illness in a convalescent home .
all meals are vegetarian , sumptuously prepared , and area served buffer style in the communal dining areas .
bukit barisan mountain range constitutes its northeastern border , beyond which laid of south sumatra province and jambi province .
closer to the elements then opt for a otter creek tents , surrounded by greenery , the luxurious tents , sit right on the banks of a tiny rivulet , which runs parallel to the beach .
a gateway to laos , ubon ratchathani is bordered to the east by the mekong river and laos , to the south by cambodia , to the west by yasothon and sisaket provinces and to the north by amnat charoen province .
in 1887 eiffel agreed to build the locks of the panama canal , an immense undertaking badly managed by ferdinand de lesseps , which ended in the biggest financial scandal of the century .
this temple site is an important tourist destination and you must visit this temple during your temple tours to kolkata , india .
again in 1987 , the succeeding prime minister rajiv gandhi ordered yet another campaign called operation black thunder to cleanse the complex of militants .
his majesty 's the government of nepal , department of tourism runs information centres at its office and at the following places : tourist information centre , tribhuvan international airport , kathmandu , tourist information centre , basantapur , kathmandu , tourist office , airport , pokhara , tourist information centre ; birgunj , tourist informafion centre , bhairahawa , tourist information centre , kakarbhitta , tourist information centre , janakpur .
there are about 100 holy shrines located inside this huge temple .
the government of india ( itdc ) tourist office is at krishna vilas station road ( west ) , aurangabad tel 24817 and the mtdc tourist office is at station road ( east ) aurangabad ( tel 331513 .
the french inhabitants of louisiana constitute a unique element in the state 's population .
vancouver named many washington landmarks , including mount rainier , mount baker , and many of the san juan islands .
the chandigarh international film festival to be held in january 2008 is likely to showcase films from france , hungary , finland and israel , apart from hindi movies .
the araucanian indians were the original inhabitants of chile .
of these four temples the luna vashi and vimal vashi temples are the most important .
in case a l. o. / m . g is so sick as to be unable to walk he shall be transported to the nearest jeepable point by engaging porters , from there he shall be sent to a hospital of his entitlement in a jeep and the payment for this transportation shall be made by the party .
pine and peak hotel is the perfect choice to enjoy the stunning scenery and leisure activities that pahalgam affords , the hotel will arrange for fishing and golfing closeby .
the first settlements were made at pembina in 1812 by scottish and irish families ( the red river settlement .
the most beautiful of several legends is about the collapse of a section of the great wall caused by meng jiangnu , who cried bitterly over the death of her husband in the construction of the great wall .
the list of shops reads right across the board with old-established names like austin reed and boots rubbing frontages with gap kids and top shop .
on hunting expeditions , people usually come back with rabbits , deer , wild boars and pigeons , well , a certain captain john smith came back with a piece of history .
inland waterway is one of the most popular picnic spots in alappuzha .
buddhist art has its origins in india .
there is , firstly , the pleasure of a gentle canoe trip in a lightweight alloy metal craft , which holds two to three people .
if you are interested in buying rosewood carvings , with details etchings of flowers or animals , it s best to visit madurai .
besides providing a suitable and proportionate ceiling to the interior hall , it enabled the builder to raise the height of the outer dome as much as he desired in order to present a lofty and imposing effect .
foreign tourists need a special permit to visit the andaman islands .
this ancient temple is situated on an island on the river narmada .
the main shopping area is the sadar bazaar , besides kinari bazar , gwalior road , mahatma gandhi road and pratap pura .
direct buses from guwahati ( 25 hours ) and silchar ( 12 hours ) ply regularly .
when you are in state that is and dotted with temples and intrinsically spiritual , encountering carved idols of gods and goddess in stone naturally abounds .
nothing chilly about its warm and welcoming people , whose hospitality knows no bounds .
if you re around for breakfast , drop in for its simple , filling and absolutely yummy muesli and fruit yoghurt .
arrestingly fashioned into elephants , horses , deer , masks and human figures by the hot wax casting technique known as dhokra , the metal artifacts of baster are recognized the world over .
squeezed in between tibet and nepal with china breathing down its neck , sikkim is known for the unspoilt magnificence of its mountains and the warmth of its people .
originally built in mud by kempe gowda in 1537 , the fort was extended and fortified by tipu sultan .
covering an area of 152 square kilometers , mu ko lanta national park is comprised of many different-sized islands , some of which are surrounded by beautiful coral reefs such as ko ha , ko rok and ko hai .
the dui fort also houses some antique cannons , sturdy walls , gateways , arches , bastions and a lighthouse .
built in the typical moorish and mughal stlyle of architecture , the oberoi amarvilas is not just beautiful , it is barely 600m away from the taj mahal and offers the most stunning views of that monument .
sailfish , black , marlin , wahoo and tunas make this , along with excellent snorkeling , a good choice for the novice and experienced angler alike .
dancers gyrate , the music beats and the summer temperature rises .
others go for shooting firearms , scuba diving and surfing , deep-sea fishing , speed boats , scooters , water-skiing , parasailing , or aerial sports such as gliding ultra-lights and flying motor-propelled gliders .
today it is reinvented as a heritage hotel , pricey and exclusive .
oregon is located on the pacific northwest and is bordered by washington on the north , idaho ( east ) , nevada & california ( south ) , and the pacific ocean ( west ) .
the park entrance fee is 200 baht per person with an additional fee of 20 baht per person for camping on the island .
the smells of katra kathian announce its wares before you reach the shops selling papads , warian , murabbas ( indian jams ) , pickles and aampapad ( dried mango candies .
jakarta is a gateway to other tourist destinations in indonesia and is equipped with all the means of modern transportation by air , sea , rail , or by land. it has the largest and most modern airport in the country , the most important harbor in indonesia and is well connected by rail of good roads to other destinations in java , sumatra , and bali .
the gompa is worth a visit for its impressive wall paintings in the prayer room , and a rare three-dimensional mandala upstairs .
you can go boating between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. on all days in ooty lake .
camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between india and china , when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels .
the temple complex throbs with music and dance during the nanda devi festival in august .
the collected items in the museum could be far better classified because a lot of the really good pieces of art need to be hunted for .
the route through manang circles the annapurna back to the kathmandu-pokhara highway .
hua hin 's consequence came with the opening of the railway hotel ( known today as the sofitel central hotel ) , an elegant victorian-style resort hotel , and also the countries first standard golf course .
rajasthan state transport corporation ( rstc ) has bus services to all the major destinations of north india .
however , its true beauty lies in the architectural and artistic details which will forever remain unknown .
it is believed that this stupa is the exact site where lord buddha was cremated and it is also believed that all his relics were divided into eight parts .
a 10 ml vial can cost anything between rs. 800 to rs. 8 , 000. .
chiang mai literally means new city and has retained the name despite having celebrated its 700th anniversary in 1996 .
but amritsar stands head and shoulders above any other city , its status elevated and sanctified by the presence of the venerable golden temple .
the crystal package works on the belief that the earts s energies are absorbed by the gem stones and that have vital healing powers .
overlooking the calm , azure waters of the chandapata lake and near the bhadiya kund near natural springs , are the red tiled cottages run bythe madhya pradesh state tourist corporation .
allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city .
the government of india office has more information on other destinations as well .
jaisalmer is famous for mirror work embroidered articles ; woolen pattu and other items made of good quality locally produced wood , wooden boxes , trinkets , silver jewellery and curios .
it is noted for zhouzhuang s profound cultural background , the well preserved ancient residential houses , the elegant watery views and the strong local colored traditions and customs .
in case of death of member , a l. o. / m . g. shall obtain necessary death certificate from the local deputy commissioner before leaving the area .
in the early fifteenth century , the knights of st john of malta invaded the region and built a massive crusader castle .
buy these nicobari mats in the company of a local , preferably your guide , who can help you strike a good deal .
it is believed that the pagoda contains buddha relics .
in the background of the show there are gazals by jagjit singh and the narrator is none other than amitabh bachchan .
it lays in the same complex as a memorial to the sufi saint baba shah muzaffar , aurangzeb s spiritual guide .
travel documents all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
miramar also deserve a mentions eat at its restaurant set on a promontory jutting to the sea and you will make yourself a memory for a lifetime .
close to the fort 's main entrance is the polished sandstone , 10. 6 meters high and dating from 242 bc .
a romantic gateway , the daman ganga valley resort , silvassa offers plush rooms , and a roman style decor .
try the kaleji fry and dal at any of these , especially on cold winter evenings .
the state bank of india or the bank of baroda , city branch in ajmer will exchange money and cash traveler s cheques .
the water channels crisscrossing the garden used to be full of colorful fish of various species .
it was only in 1961 that the fort of diu was attacked by the indian army , who took over the diu from portuguese inhabitants .
if you plan to drive yourself , then make sure you have a valid driving license and ensure the car insurance is covered .
after the civil war many blacks were unable to survive as farmers and moved to northern cities .
cities of andhra pradesh have interesting examples of european architecture as well as domestic vernacular architecture .
brahma also referred the allahabad as ` tirth raj or the ` king of all pilgrimage centres .
east java is located between 5o 37 ' and 8o 48 'south latitude and between 110o 54 ' and 115o 57 ' east longitude .
the legs of the throne were decorated with sphinxes and winged figures of victory .
the ayurvedic spas in kerala are , perhaps most authentic in the country .
beachcombing takes on a new meaning for shoppers in this seaside town daman .
the originally sakley s swiss confectionery was famous for its delectable chocolates , cakes and pastries .
for its sheer mountain grandeur and breath-taking panorama of beauty , few places can match the superb landscape through which the karakoram highway snakes .
in the hilly areas there are rolling tea gardens , areca nut plantations .
dry and very cold , lahaul plateau it is surrounded by high mountain on all sides , the great himalayan in the north .
in osian the tourist 's have the liberty to watch the architectural forms during that camel ride and return back to the camps or the resorts followed by drinks and thematic evening of performing arts and a choice of oriental cuisines arranged in the ethnic style of that region .
the name itself means a lot with the reference being made to the confluence of three south indian rivers , making it a unique hill station in india and also in the south .
there are dozens of brazilian folk dances - everything from dramatizations of the early wars between the portuguese and the indians ( caboclinhos and caiapos performed in the states of pernambuco and alagoas ) , to the cavalhada of pirenopolis in the state of goias , a theatrical pageant , lasting three days , which depicts the fight between the christians and the moors on the iberian peninsula .
akbar was an astute ruler , who encouraged interaction with his hindu subjects and neighboring chieftains .
the highest elevation is guadalupe peak in culberson county at 8 , 749 feet while the lowest elevation is the gulf of mexico at sea level .
the near the bus stand is a repository of kumaoni art , culture and history .
parasailing is carried with great gusto and enthusiasm in places of the order of , bundla dhar near bilaspur and intkali in pabbar valley near rohru in shimla district in himachal pradesh .
i have a japanese friend who loves ikat too , and we discovered that the traditional japanese weaves originated from orissa , via bali , perhaps in the 7th century .
it is in this fort that khusrau , the son of emperor jahangir fought to gain control of the throne and was first imprisoned and then killed in 1615 by his brother shah jahan .
jaipur bazaars are vibrant and the shops are full with colorful items which include - handicraft items , precious stones , textiles , minakari items , jewellery , rajasthani paintings , etc .
the windows in the tearooms are designed to catch the afternoon sun and frame the view down into the valley .
in fact brahma temple is said to be one of the few brahma temples in india .
the flesh of the kadaknath chicken is jet black which doesn t look very appetizing , but cooked in a simple curry , it is quite delicious .
and when the temple was again destroyed by the goths in ad 262 , the ephesians vowed to rebuild .
climate ajmer has a typical desert type climate with hot summers and cold winters and a sharp difference in day and night temperatures in both summer and winter .
today it 's a teeming metropolis , commercial hub of an old civilization seeking to find .
taj appears as if it is about to rise into the sky .
a vision in white drenched in romance and beauty , udaipur is a fascinating blend of sights sounds and experience-an inspiration for the imagination of poets , painters and written .
as you stand at the summit , you will see the town of cahmpaner below , a town that matches pavagadh temple for temple , palace for palace , and legends for legends .
blacks are still a majority in parts of rural south carolina , although many blacks have moved to urban areas .
at the bay view restaurant you can sample scrumptious lobsters , prawns and other seafood specialties .
this state has a rich cultural heritage and has also been mentioned in the ancient indian scriptures as pragjyotisa .
soon enough , prince jahangir was born to his hindu wife jodha bai .
the best place to buy attar is charkaman in hyderabad , the seller , probably would be an elderly man with kohl-rimmed eyes and a wad of cotton tucked behind his ear .
running water should be used for washing , and washing should be done well downstream of campsites .
english colonists , sent by sir walter raleigh , unsuccessfully attempted to settle roanoke island in 1585 and 1587 .
it is set in peaceful green surroundings , and the lam nehru park , known for its aviary and orchid centre , is right next door .
this magnificent monument is set around a charbagh or four garden plan , which is split by watercourses a reflection of the persian style .
the province covers some 6 , 596 square kilometres and is divided into 9 amphoes : muang sukhothai , ban dan lan hoi , khiri mat , kong krailat , sawankhalok , si nakhon , si samrong , si satchanalai and thung saliam .
nowadays , i don t get enough time to do what i like best revisiting the monuments of karnataka .
during british rule mount abu became the favorite summer destination of the british .
bagnath temple , bageshwar gets its name form this ancient temple of lord shiva set in the heart of the town .
the old city , also known as the pink city , is a wonderful place to wander around .
even night can not stop the kite flying craze , because as soon as sun sets , illuminates box kites dot the night sky .
the important festivals of ooty are thaipoosam in elk hill murugan temple , bookkapuram mariamman annual festival , ooty mariamman temple festival , coonoor mariamman temple festival , boat races and boat pageantry in ooty , flower show in ooty and fruit show in coonoor .
men should wear formal cotton shirts with a tie and trousers if the weather is warm otherwise a business suit is appropriate .
don t miss a chance to stop at garampani to snack on alu gutak , a spicy dry potato preparation and turmeric yellow cucumber raita , with ground mustard for added tang .
the rooftop lounge casa baga offers some great views and you can party the night away at the hip congo .
don t miss local desserts such as moong halwa , thick rabri , mawa bati or churma .
centuries of a thriving urban culture based on international maritime trade has meant that the cities you visit today have absorbed greek , arab , and roman , chinese , portuguese , dutch and british influences .
parasailing in india is one of the newest of windows of opportunities opened by adventure tourism in india and it takes place at several places , but himalayas still are the perfect place for parasailing in india .
ayodhya is pre-eminently a city of temples yet , all places of worship here are not only of hindu religion .
protests and demonstrations were being organized by people against the rowlett act that allowed the british to imprison anybody without explanation .
foreigners may trek anywhere in open zone without a permit or services of a licensed mountain guide .
the assembly of the supports began on july 1 , 1887 and was completed twenty-two months later .
the oregon treaty signed with great britain on june 15 , 1846 gave the united states sole claim to oregon country south of the 49th parallel , which included the present states of washington , oregon , idaho , and northwestern montana .
the venerable old banyan tree , supposedly indestructible , sits in a protected space within the temple .
ooty is situated at an altitude of 2 , 240 meters above sea level .
thalang took over 30 days for the defending troops of phuket , under the command of chan and muk , to claim their victory .
the kumari amman temple in kanyakumari in tamil nadu , india is one of the most important temple sites in south india .
the fascination of main tourism in central sulawesi is megalith omission area of historic epoch , which stay in bada and besoa , however the natural beauty and sociability of its public become valuable asset for the tourism expansion in this area .
administratively , central sulawesi province divided into eight regencies and one town with 85 districts dan1432 village with number of residents ' 2.215.449 men and density of average level is 29 men/km2. .
quite obviously , hydrabadi biryani tops my list of favorites , but close contenders are golconda hotel s chapala pulusu and chicken 65 .
old north state , turpentine state , tarheel state , north carolina was originally named in honor of france 's charles ix and later in honor of england 's charles i and charles ii .
adjacent to the snake park is a children 's park which has a large playing ground and collection of birds and animals .
straddling the equator in western south america , ecuador has territories in both the northern and the southern hemispheres .
the whole city was painted pink by maharaja man singh ii when prince of wales , later edward vii , visited jaipur in 1876 .
nearest underground stops : cutty sark - for maritime greenwich dlr .
the fort is occupied by the indian army and therefore much of its lies out of bounds to the public .
arunachal pradesh means the `` land of the dawn lit mountains `` and lives up to its name .
georgia , the last of the 13 british colonies established on the atlantic seaboard , was founded by james edward oglethorpe with 114 original settlers on february 12 , 1733 , at the present site of the city of savannah .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
the water works , including the hanging gardens and the lakes were also built at this time .
the mandar hill temple is another place that you must pay a visit to during your temple tours to bihar , india as according to a commonly believed legend it was here that the hindu deity lord vishnu defeated a demon and it is believed that this battle lasted for more than a thousand years .
everyday , half of mumbai 's population commutes from far-flung suburbs to downtown offices , banks , factories and mills for a living .
the city has beautiful palaces , gardens , hills , temples and lakes , which fascinate visitors with their perfection .
mysore was the political capital of the wodeyar dynasty which ruled the state of karnataka for some 150 years till the independence of the country from the british .
earlier this year , tata coffee entered the hospitality sector with a cluster of holiday homes colonial plantation bungalows around coorg .
dip them into the traditional black chutney made of sesame , dry bamboo shoots , bitter gourd , naga basil leaves and chilly powder .
the restaurant faces the planter s club and under its awning , you will find people gathering to feast all day , sometimes starting from dawn .
the village haats spring up at any time and are the best places to buy tribal artifacts such as combs , horn work , jewellery and wood carvings .
wat khlong thom museum exhibits various artifacts discovered during excavations of an area called `` khuan luk pat `` or a bead mound behind wat khlong thom .
lyon 's range stock exchange , behind clive street , is worth a visit for a glimpse of the frenzied dealing in shares , periodically erupting onto the street .
bangaram island situated in the bay of bengal , the andaman and nicobar islands are still largely undiscovered by mass tourism .
consisting of the twin cities of hyderabad and secunderabad , hyderabad is also the capital of the state of andhra pradesh .
the official line , from the head of public information at the palace is that the clock tower is simply called the clock tower .
the crow hunted the lush grasslands of northeastern wyoming until they were pushed westward into the mountains by the sioux .
hyderabad is one such place where is so much to awe the senses , from the magnificent food to the majestic monuments , from its terrific landscapes to a populace steeped in respect and tradition .
a long line of picturesque ghats - with their steps leading to the water 's edge , arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right bank of the river yamuna , emphasis the sacred character of the town of mathura .
vep fees are charged at sgd 20 per day , monday to friday ( from 0200 hrs to 1700 hrs .
the city is also linked to muscat , london and new york .
dharamshala was founded and developed by the british in 1855 as their summer resort .
all attractions of phra nang lagoon are accessible only by boat ; they still draw numerous visitors for recreational and adventurous activities such as diving , snorkeling , hiking and rock climbing .
bhairava basically refers to the hindu deity lord shiva .
the tourist complex ( phone 05619 2490 ) offers clean and affordable accommodation with reasonable food .
a l.o./m.g. shall act as an interpreter from the starting place of the trekking party till its return to district headquarters .
the mystique of the desert beckons of the wild caressed sand dunes , where rise the three splendid cities of jodhpur , desert festival bikaner and jaisalmer-the ancient relics of glorious past .
dssssssddskjs mizos are good singers-walk into any church on a sunday and let the lilting choir music mesmeries you .
it was gokul that lord krishna was brought up in secrecy by yashoda , in the pastoral beauty of this village on the banks of the yamuna .
noppharat thara beach can be reached by songthaew from the city at the rate of 20 baht and to travel further to ao nang , it will cost an additional 10 baht .
the population of brazil is a big melting pot of races , including indigenous people , descendants of slaves from africa and the offspring of european immigrants .
palembang is still the gateway to the province , and together with pangkal pinang on bangka island and tanjung pandan on belitung , provides the region with three major airports .
besides the ajmer sharif dargah , there are many other important historical and religious sites .
the low land plains are found alongside the northern beaches .
the best time to visit bharatpur is during the months of october , november , february and march .
it is set in the midst of lush bamboo forests , near thenzawl ( 142 km from aizawl .
no description of orissa is complete without a mention of odissi , the classical dance form that has given many a maestro to this state .
precious stones like jade , crystal , turquoise , lapis lazuli , sapphire , jade , coral and diamonds were brought from far flung places in tibet , china , sri lanka , persia and afghanistan .
today janakpur stands as the most cleanest and interesting place among all the towns of terai .
the falls are surrounded by a national park containing the world 's largest pluvial forest , home to 12 species of amphibians , 18 species of fish , 40 species of mammals , including the jaguar , ocelot , capybara and giant river otter , 60 different reptiles , 340 bird species , and 700 unique species of fluttering butterflies .
tournaments are especially popular during the calm season between september and mat when contenders reel in record catches of sailfish , marlin , wahoo and barracuda .
after the decline of the mughals , control of ajmer passed into the hands of the new power brokers , the marathas , particularly the scindias of gwalior .
in front of the church 's terraced stairs , in six small devotional chapels , he created the stations of the cross with 66 poignant statues in cedar wood .
tirupati is one of the most important and among the richest temples of south india .
in the heart of the city , connaught place colonial marketplace was the city s first modern commercial centre , and remains a hive of activity with the slick sameness of modernity encraching rapidly , it is still home to cavernous old family-run shops from the days of the raj , high-ceiling restaurants cloked in a certain shabby grandeur and musty bookstores where you can brows for hours .
women , who participate in garba , balance a decorated pot on their heads and dances to the songs sung by fellow women to the beat of a dholak .
cold nights and warm sunny days characterize winter months with average highs of 23 c and minimum temperatures of 5 / 4 c .
robert delaunay gave it cubist facets in a whole series of canvases started in 1910 .
the mall or the shopping center , which includes a row of bargain and negotiable price shops , is geared up throughout the year for the customers .
the tribal people travelled free as part of the contract agreed upon when they allowed the british to build the railway through their territory .
the road to the sangam is lined with stalls selling various religious paraphernalia , including flowers , vermilion powder , coconuts and other offerings .
about 150 km south of aizawl , thinzawl is another good place to shop .
the palanquin is set with precious stones and has silver poles and a gold canopy .
during the early mosoon , go to the local market at jowai to brows through a mind-boggling variety of mushrooms , the most popular of which is the tit tung .
the temple has a small sanctum where the idol of the main deity is kept .
ayurvedic treatment and massages are offered at the kairali massage centre .
down in the south marine life and the eastern ghats the communion with nature is in the nilgiri ranges having its own unique appeal .
the potent brew is traditionally sipped through a bamboo container called a tongba .
on top of a hill in sndar nagar and visited by thousands of devotees every year , is the sukhdev vatika and temple of mahamaya .
to top it all is the dazzling 250-square-kilometer ang thong marine national park , where a stunning archipelago awaits to greet visitors with their charming palm-fringed beaches , crystal clear water and colorful coral reefs .
the spanish conquered the country in the 16th century and ruled until the country 's independence in 1818 .
the bare minimum is just under $ 18 a day while a top end holiday could blow through the roof .
you have to time it really well to be able to sample this - it is not a dish that s cooked every day , a serving of venison may cost rs. 100 .
mount abu is placed on the boundary between rajasthan and gujarat with a natural mandate to serve as a hill station for the relatively dry and arid western part of the country .
adjoining tipu 's summer palace is the venkataramanaswamy temple , a 300-year old temple built by the wodeyars and still in very good condition .
rajasthan is the most colorful region in india exhibiting splendor and royalty in every walk of life .
the proper name for these courtrooms is the central criminal court , but they are more commonly known as the old bailey , as is the street in which they stand , after the medieval defenses that were once on the site .
it neighbors the mudumalai national park in tamil nadu and wynaad in kerala .
for all you know , you could discover the sea tunnel that , legends has it , connects it to land .
the hill station is well known for its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery .
treat yourself to a luxurious stay at the tripura castle , known for being the first heritage hotel in the north east .
strabo was right , except that the sculptor is to be commended , not criticized .
lying in sylvan solitude this sacred place is situated on the bank of river niranjana ( modern falgu .
built by marthanda varma , this palace at karthikapally in kayamkulam is famous for its mural depicting the story of gajendramoksham dating back to the 18th century ; this exquisite piece of art is one of the largest murals in kerala .
september to march is the best season to visit udaipur .
when the colossus was finished , it stood about 33 m ( 110 ft ) high .
even the elevators are done up in leather while each floor has it s won theme , the hotel also boasts of i-bar , bangalore s first lounge bar .
people interested for lonesome walks can opt for a visit to jakhoo hill .
the ruling was later to be annulled by the highest appeal court , the cour de cassation , liberating him of all obligations concerning the accusations , which put an end to any further court action against him .
namtok huai to , located approximately 500 meters from the park 's office , this waterfall flows over rocks into 11 huge pools , each with their own name , such as wang thewada , wang sok , and wang chan .
the golden temple and surrounding bazaars along narrow alleys , is encircled by a ring road .
by road it takes 3 hours to drive from dacca , the capital of bangladesh , to agartala .
traipse through jail road , bazaar for everything from orchids to mounted butterflies .
a full range of accommodations from super deluxe hotels to bungalows and mini-pocket guesthouses replaced fishermen s huts along the beach .
port blair is connected to calcutta and chennai by alliance air .
small and not given to the excesses that other museums are given to , the exhibits here include a 500-year-old chain mail suit , an 800-year-old paithani sari and a copy of the koran hand painted by aurangzeb .
rains from june to september often disrupt life and vital communications .
the fight to keep their land mirrors the bolivians ' fight to preserve their traditions , such as the pachamama ( ' mother earth ' ) ; shrines to her are found everywhere .
sikkim , a unique hill station among other hill stations in india is remote due to its far-flung location .
originally john nash built it as a gateway for buckingham palace , but the great architect got it wrong and made it too small for the royal coaches .
many were built by wren as part of his grand scheme to resurrect london after the great fire of 1666 which started in pudding lane and decimated much of the city .
by 1920 , illinois was counted among the foremost states in nearly every significant growth variable coal mining , industry , farming , urbanization , transportation , and wholesaling .
these also have varieties of deer including the antlered barasingha and a range of lesser cats , lion at sasangir mammals and birds .
like many other provinces , the kingdom of caria in the western part of asia minor ( turkey ) was so far from the persian capital that it was practically autonomous .
bangkok covers an area of more than 1 , 500 square kilometres , and it is home to approximatlely ten million people or more than 10 % of the country 's population .
originally built in 1910 , the spacious rooms at the grand palace two storey hotel look out on hoary chinars and beautiful gardens .
bara bazaar is the main shopping centre of aizawl , where all handicraft and handloom items are available .
the road is in very good condition at the moment .
the mughal emperor akbar is said to have donated the land around the temple after paying off the local jat farmers .
the forest lodge and tiger camp provide sumptuous meals , clean comfortable bed and bath and an ambience that matches the wilderness .
it also has a green house with a collection of various kinds of flora .
the secret of impregnability a ring of three massive walls ; a system of pipes and pumps that ensures unending water supply ; and incredible acoustics .
adinarayan bhojanalaya : this belgaum restaurant is renowned far and wide for it s seafood , so much so that patrons come here from as far as goa , parts of the south maharashtra and the konkan coast .
medical facilities including surgical operations etc. are generally provided free of cost in pakistani hospitals .
the nat west tower was previously the head office of a british bank and is now the international financial centre .
it is a well known 9 day feast held every year in the month of may .
the lodge at pangot provides great comfort after a good days riding .
by road a good national and state highway network links ajmer to other parts of rajasthan and many important destinations in india .
many professionals have been involved in formulating and developing eco-tourism policies .
the mata kunwar shrine is an important buddhist pilgrimage that houses a 10th century blue schist image of lord buddha .
there is a good restaurant in motel , marble rocks something of a rarity in this area .
run by mrs carafina pereir , an impressive matron with even more impressive culinary skills , martin s corner near betalbatim beach offer fantastic goan fare with some chinese and continental thrown in .
all rivers in surat thani flow east of the province to the gulf of thailand .
chiang mai borders myanmar on the north , lamphun and tak provinces on the south , chiang rai , lampang and lamphun provinces on the east and mae hong son province on the west .
most of the state stands on the high deccan plateau which stretches east some 800 km. from the western ghats .
out in the desert , and just 40 kilometers south-west of jaisalmer , lays the village of khuri , the main attraction here is the desert solitude and beautifully decorated houses of mud and straw .
the sewa or the self employed women 's association offers hand printed fabrics and other textiles made by women s cooperatives .
the number of birds and butterflies is of the order of 500 and the orchids stand at a healthy number of 450 .
the western ghats have mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
uttarmegh lodge , this is your chance to stay in an ancient city. unakoti , a heritage site set against the backdrop of picturesque lush green hills , is home to beautiful rock-cut carvings and stone images .
the best time to be here is december when the taramati music festival is on .
usually held on the premises of a popular hotel , bhojan food festival will allow you to sample treats like dalma and ghanta .
the fish is fried separately , and then fried again with rice-absolutely sinful .
the period between the decline of the mughal dynasty and the insurgence of the british imperial rule , polo almost vanished from the mainland india .
this creed became very popular in china , japan , tibet and ladakh. nagarjuna has been raised to the exalted position of buddistava and enjoys the reputation of being the greatest thinker of the age .
native americans , many of whom live in or near the warm springs , umatilla , siletz , and former klamath reservations , constitute 1.3 percent of the population ; native hawaiians and other pacific islanders are 0.2 percent ; and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity are 7.3 percent .
chini ka rauza was constructed by afjal khan-a high official in the court of shahjahan , decorated by glazed tiles on the facade , the structure clearly depicts the persian influence in architecture .
the state capital is sacramento , other major cities or towns include los angeles , san diego , san jose , san francisco , long beach , fresno , oakland , santa ana , and anaheim .
around & about by air flights from calcutta , silchar and guwahati connect aizawl six days a week .
you can also find colorful saris made especially for the weddings and festivals of fisherfolk , along with the white cushion covers and mats that will do your home proud at sarjan art gallery .
the base of the stupa has a square and has a flight of steps on each side .
chowringhee , located in this honeymoon destination in india , is the busiest part of the town , which houses modernish theatres , restaurants and once tired the starry eyed couples can saunter across to the roadside meadow popularly known as the `` maidan `` to the localities .
new orleans and the surrounding territory controlled the mouth of the mississippi river down which much of the produce of the mid-west traveled to reach market .
take a drive on the misty and magical kohima-imphal road for a glimpse of true beauty .
agriculture is the main occupation of the people of arunachal pradesh .
famous for the million year old fossils , the wood fossil park is a geological landmark of the thar desert , jaisalmer .
the final chapter in the history of the lighthouse came in ad 1480 when the egyptian mamelouk sultan , qaitbay , decided to fortify alexandria 's defense .
the tughlaq king mohammed bin tughlaq of the delhi sultanat moved his capital from delhi , along with the citizens to this area in the 14th century but failed due to poor logistical planning .
early reconstructions such as the one by von erlach are now believed to be rather inaccurate .
there has been a church or abbey on this spot since saxon times and below the church can be seen a section of floor from a roman house .
not many people know the bhadarwah valley , which is a must visit in jammu .
cherai beach ( 45 km from ernakulam city ) , bordering vypeen island , is alluring for its thick coconut groves and quaint chinese fishing nets on the waterfront .
at the feet of these mountains will find pleasant and cool highland plains with beautiful panoramas such as baturaden , the dieng plateau , bandungan , kopeng , tawangmangu , solo , etc. apart from these mountains there are some small mountains and lime mountains .
the guru ram das and guru nanak hostels on one side of the complex offer free accommodation up to three nights for visitors .
windamere s decor follows traditional colonial style and , it s new wing , little windamere has modern facilities and decor .
however only a day 's visit is allowed to places like jolly buoy ; south cinque ; red skin ; moun hariet and madhuban .
the pieces were hauled up by steam cranes , which themselves climbed up the tower as they went along using the runners to be used for the tower 's lifts .
the thalis are among the most enjoyable choices , apart from the manglore fish curry and lasooni malai tikka .
some of the sculptures survived and are today on display at the british museum in london .
arkansas 's widely varied landscapes are home to a history rich in intriguing subplots .
greek gods and mythical figures also adorned the scene : apollo , artemis , and niobe 's children .
the erstwhile dilthaman tank , which was the only source of drinking water to port blair , and the area around it has been developed into gandhi park in an unbelievably short time of 13 days .
prayag is one of the historic & mythological cities of india with glorious past and present .
the dupattas , cotton saris and other fabrics woven by bastar s artisans are distinguished by their blod tribal motifs in natural dyes .
so go there and discover them for yourself and before leaving , do go to the viewpoint on the flat topped hill opposite the caves for an amazing view of the whole group and the gorge .
kuchipudi , the classical dance originating from the state has vigorous choreography and is somewhat akin to bharatanatyam .
the beauty of kerala can not be just written or explained , it has to be experienced .
always a tourist favorite , the city cochin offers visitors plenty .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you get an opportunity to visit the miran saheb ki dargha that is located inside the taragarh fort .
in mysour you can visit the palace of the maharaja built in 1911-12. .
several historical figures of the deccan lie buried here , including the last great mughal emperor , aurangzeb .
this little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world .
the banqueting house is the only remaining complete building of whitehall palace , the sovereign 's principal residence from 1530 until 1698 when it was destroyed by fire .
in mandi there are a couple of lakes to be visited .
from tourist village you can hear the sounds of the wildlife and birds of the madhav national park and the splash of crocodiles as they swim in the lake .
tip : there is another taj mahal on the same road , so make your choice .
the convexity has deliberately been given to the plinth in the centre of each arch , or else the building would have appeared as if it were falling down ! the facades are not exactly at a right angle with the plinth , but are slightly inclined .
rallies were shortened to 750 kilometers as long as they were part of the national championship and that made competition very tight .
run by the descendants of beghum of bhopal , few other hotels can match its standard of hospitality .
then , this honeymoon destination in india is also home to siberian cranes in the mahe marshlands and a couple oriented towards photographically capturing the beauty of these tracts , has ample of opportunity in this idyllic honeymoon destination in india .
five km away at kadiroor is suryanarayan temple , its initial structure dating back to the 13th century .
new models are being produced all the time while have-been are quietly removed from display and put into storage .
the mansa devi temple is an ancient temple that is situated on a hill close to the main city of haridwar , uttaranchal , india .
so , come to kerala for a perfect holiday explore the sun baked beaches , feast your eyes on the lush greenery , feel the rhythm of kathakali and shop for souvenirs .
in nainital district , sat tal , bhim tal , and naukuchiyatal also have water sport & boating facilities .
heirlooms belonging to the tsechu tharpa family still decorate the four huge rooms .
the region was established as an english proprietary colony in 1663-1665 and in its early history was the scene of culpepper 's rebellion ( 1677 ) , the quaker-led cary rebellion ( 1708 ) , the tuscarora indian war ( 1711-1713 ) , and many pirate raids .
gandrung dance : a classical dance dedicated to dewi sri , the goddess of rice also popular in banyuwangi as well .
the areas open to the public are the , an underground temple believed to have been visited by rama , the hero of ramayana and an incarnation of lord vishnu .
on the whole , the area remains largely residential with rows of modest but smart semi-detached victorian houses lining most streets .
it has a status comparable to that of a municipality and is administered separately by the mayor of pattaya city , who is responsible for making policies , organizing public services , and supervising all employees of pattaya city administration .
run by the same management as the japfr ashok in kohima , the saramati is known for its exceptional pork dishes .
the epicenter of kite flying during uttarayan is definitely in the capital ahmedabad , and this is the place to be if you want to soak in the atmosphere of the festival .
kalindikhal trek is a gradual ascent of 10 kms there after , the trek negotiates kharapathar ( 8 kms ) at a height of 5456 m , before camping at kalindi base ( 5590 m ) , a further 6 kms down .
singapore pipped hong kong and london to the top spot in the best business city category in the annual poll of the magazine 's subscribers , comprising frequent travellers based mostly in the asia-pacific region .
houses with pink latticed windows line the streets , and look almost magical at sunset .
the rest of the year , the entertainment scene is fairly humdrum with little on except movies at the local cinema houses .
later , after the transfer of the capital , the building was used as a county courthouse and finally was destroyed .
ancient yet modern , fabulously rich yet achingly poor , mumbai is india in microcosm .
the extensive ruins of his capital city parihaspur , speak of his activities in the field of art and architecture .
french trappers and explorers may have reached the area in the middle to late 18th century .
shimla has an added attraction of mini zoo amidst dense forest to the tourists where a rare breed of wild animals and pheasants species commonly found in himalayan forest region have been kept in natural habitat .
the kail and gori rivers meet at jauljibi where the water volume increases .
yellow river runs through nine provinces and autonomous regions on its way to the bohai sea .
getting around local buses , taxis , auto rickshaws and horse drawn tangas fulfill the visitors getting around needs .
a city of yesteryears today lost in the mists of time .
parasailing in india is a faction of adventure tourism in india , which can be called as tourism with a difference .
about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horse shoe .
the discovery of sulfur in 1869 and oil in 1901 , coupled with the rise of forestry sent the state on a new wave of economic growth. eventually , louisiana became a major american producer of oil and natural gas and a center of petroleum refining and petrochemicals manufacturing , which it remains to this day .
the meeting point is known as triveni and is especially sacred to hindus .
in the old city of bhopal , the aroma of kebabs barbecued every evening wafts through the narrow bustling galis .
it was named after its patron goddess shyamla devi , an incarnation of the goddesses kali .
at prayag , take a dip at the holy confluence of the ganga , yamuna and saraswati rivers : while varanasi is a city that sings our prayers to lord shiva .
the northern side of the dargah has a langar khana , where food is cooked and distributed amongst the poor and needy twice everyday .
as per its topography , uttar pradesh can be divided into three distinct regions the himalayan mountainous region in the north , the fertile and vast gangetic plains in the centre and the rocky vindhya range and plateau to the south of the state .
kerala is closer to public conscience as a land of sleepy backwaters and sunlit horizons with boats fading out in the distance to quarters accessible only to the famed boatmen .
surrounded by high mountain ranges , the city of chiang mai covers an area of approximately 20 , 107 square kilometers and is the country 's second largest province .
to make tourism a tool that enables the country to surpass poverty , she considers that there must be ample cooperation between the authorities , the public sector and citizens in general .
in the corner of the inner court of the dargah , is a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow court having low arcade and delicate carvings with trellis work .
mysore is just 139 kms by road from bangalore .
there is also a fine collection of sculpture and armory in the museum .
choose from household decors and utility goods , perfumes , and chocolates from portuguese market .
built in 1742 and located at the southeast side of fuan bridge , shen house was the private property of the descendant of shen wansan , the first millionaire of jiangnan ( south of yangtze river ) in the early qing dynasty .
it was under a tree in the garden that keats wrote ode to a nightingale .
a veritable showpiece of nature with its un spoilt scenic beauty manali can be made the headquarters of mountain .
forts , palaces , museums , old churches , cool backwaters , palm fringed lagoons , beaches and the practicality of a contemporary metro .
i love to shop for my kanchipuram pattu saris at sundari silks while making a dash across the road for a plate of hot , hot murugan idlis and a cup of south indian decoction coffee at panagal park .
the taj mahal , the one and only one of its kind across the world .
i also love the ragi roti at janpadaloka kamath in ramnagaram .
change money at authorized moneychangers only .
with two outlets in the exclusive khan market and another in east of kailash , the big chill holds tremendous appeal .
power boats are also available for charter for deep-sea fishing expedition out of the andaman sea resorts of phuket and krabi .
available directly from artisans in kantilo and balakati , in puri district , and widely available in cuttack and sambalpur districts .
the trek passes through a varied landscape ranging from evergreen forests , cascading waterfalls and turbulent streams to sub-alpine grasslands and stark , beautiful mountainsides .
the local dishes are usually served on a fresh green , banana leaf , which adds to the wholesome , hearty meal .
elephant safaris are exciting for those in search of an experience of a lifetime .
andhra pradesh is also the home of the colorful lambanis and banjaras - nomadic tribes and some of them turn up as pavement sellers offering their highly ornate long skirts and silver jewellery .
capital city of bihar , it is an important business centre of eastern india .
sing-ju , this strange concoction is a popular snack in manipur .
the u .s . obtained northeastern north dakota by treaty with great britain in 1818 and took possession of pembina in 1823 .
ganga is a superb river for inflatable rafts .
by train amritsar is connected by direct trains to major indian cities like delhi , jammu , mumbai , nagpur , calcutta and puri .
the best excursion site , desert national park is famous for the black buck , chinkara , desert fox and the great indian bustard .
one of the most significant trends of the postwar era ( 1945-1960 ) has been steady population growth , resulting from large migrations to the state from within the u .s . and from countries throughout the western hemisphere , notably cuba and haiti .
idaho variously belonged to the oregon territory , washington territory before it became a state in 1890 .
when not away , the queen and prince philip spend most weekends at windsor castle , where they enjoy horse riding .
antarctica is welcoming more tourist-orientated cruises and ferries to the region every year , and facilities are continually developing , with more accommodation , culinary and travel options available .
later , the u .s . wanted to build a railroad through the area south of the gila river and purchased more land from mexico in the gadsden purchase in 1853 .
pick them up in various patterns and sizes depending on what you are looking for .
situated at a height of 1 , 800ft , judge s court heritage resort is the best visited in winter .
la piazza is arguably the best italian fine dinning eatery in the capital .
the heavily embroidered zardosi saris and dresses will make heads turn , even though most of them are very dressy .
the highlands is comprised of the andean foothills which slowly descend towards the amazon river basin .
but if nothing else it has served to place the spotlight on what is undoubtedly a place for the future .
each guest room is different the spacious venkatagiri suite has a verandah and a private dressing area ; the rajadurga suite rewards early wakers with a spectacular sunrise , and the kanchipuram suite has it s own pillared balcony , an old fashioned lime green bathroom , and antique gramophone .
however , one loud slurp of the creamy chai is worth all the discomfort .
the stylish restaurant , bistro and banyan tree also offer excellent food , coupled with well stocked bars .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
so , apart from the hilly terrain , deep gorges and idyllic landscape , what mizoram has to offer you is complete peace of mind .
the state bank of india will change your money and encash travelers cheques .
the subways below marble arch are also a favorite pitch for beggars .
one of the biggest names is rathna stores in pondy bazaar , a sprawling departmental store stacked with rows of utensils that almost touch the ceiling .
for taj mahal the chief building material , the white marble was brought from the quarries of makrana , in distt.nagaur , rajasthan .
needless to say , champaner-pavagarh is like no other in the way it encapsulates the triumphs and glories , trials and tribulations of a succession of centuries .
the mutton pieces are actually wrapped in gold leaf and served on a bed of thick gravy .
the simple sandstone tomb completed in 1622 lies next to that of khusraus mother s double storeyed burial chamber .
the story so far after its creation in 1411 , the city went through successive periods of glory and decline .
the nearest railhead is at sawantwadi , 30 km away .
afterwards the government forced most of the remaining dakota to leave minnesota .
as eiffel he explains : `` all the cutting force of the wind passes into the interior of the leading edge uprights .
uribe immediately declared a partial state of emergency , allowing him to impose security measures by decree .
the festival also draw kite flying enthusiasts from around the world , who bring their own distinctive kites with them and add to the vibrancy of the festival .
get lovely gift items or just explore the town by visiting the market .
rio is the hottest of destinations , particularly around carnival time .
portions of what is now wyoming were at one time claimed by spain , france , and england , though none of them established much of a presence there .
mighty ranges of the hindukush , the karakoram and black mountains , gentle slopes , placid plains , torrential streams malam jabba offers unlimited sights to behold .
if you are really interested in the animals , you must avoid the weekends when hordes of visitors come down from nearby cities for the day .
bangalore meets the season 's expectations , which means , it is warm in the summer , chilly in winter and the monsoons visit regularly .
the idol of lord tirloknath is bathed in milk and yougurt .
the background is not constant ; it changes its color and texture more than often , and the taj is always presented in a variety of tints and moods .
there are highways and rail roads connecting different districts in ubon ratchathani with other provinces and there is one international airport located in muang district .
kanti kapasi was working with a khadi emporium when he realized that ahmedabad needed a comprehensive handicraft showroom that could offer the whole range of indian crafts under one roof .
it was painstakingly dismantled and then reconstructed in the arizona desert where it still stands , and carries six lanes of traffic .
post independence , many british families with strong emotional ties to the place stayed back and almora became their home away from home .
passengers arriving at tribhuvan international airport ( tia ) without any dutiable goods can proceed through the green channel for quick clearance without a baggage check .
chamba has preserved the ancient culture and heritage and chamba is known for the elegence of its temples and handicrafts .
with an aerobics centre , yoga and meditation rooms , squash and tennis courts ; there are plenty of fitness options at angsana oasis resort and spa .
if you re looking for something really special , consol s is just the place for you .
srirangapatna s fort bears witness to the tiger of mysore 's last battle against the british .
the caves were chiselled out by buddhist monks between 200 bc and 650 ad as chaityas ( prayer halls ) and viharas ( monasteries ) , and contain exquisite frescoes and fine sculptures .
if you want some spicier stuff then go for sawchiar , a turmeric-laced chicken-and-rice preparation .
this impressive collonaded building houses the two houses of parliament .
i have two favourite hotels : trident in gurgaon for its spatial designer luxury , and pataudi palace where you enter into quite another world .
legend has it that a gifted sculptor carved one less than a crore ( ten million ) images overnight , hence the name ' unakoti ( `` koti `` meaning crore .
the tradition established by debret and his colleagues was so strong that neoclassicism and participation in academies ruled brazilian visual arts well into the republican era .
eco-tourism in india is still at a very nascent stage , but there are for sure conscious efforts to save the fragile himalayan eco system and culture and heritage of the indigenous people , which is probably the largest concentration in the world .
the indians who lived in arkansas included the folsom people , bluff dwellers , mound builders , caddos , quapaws , osage , choctaw and cherokee .
the kullu valley is also known as the valley of the gods .
nothing is exciting about maussollos life except the construction of his tomb .
the jakhu temple is one of the most favoured spots for tourists apart from pilgrims .
a deep-fried ball of chana dal ( split seeds of gram ) paste crushed with green coriander leaves , green chillies , salt and oil , and often delicately flavoured with dried methi ( fenugreek ) leaves .
rich cultural relics , history and gorgeous natural sceneries make the yellow river a fine place to visit .
today , the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence .
spanning a period of about 600 years between the 5th and the 11th century a.d. , the earliest excavation here is of the dhumar lena ( cave 29 .
madura island , famous for its bull races , is part of the province of east java , though it has its own traditions and language .
the largest number of people of foreign heritage in minnesota are germans , who are found mostly in the southern and central portions of the state .
maharashtra 's many inland and coastal forts are a legacy of shivaji and , to a lesser extent , the portuguese .
the bull temple has been built by kempegowda .
wandering around sangolda , set in a sprawling old goan home , is a real pleasure .
there are more than 100 savings and agricultural cooperatives in the province , 35 irrigation projects and 7 , 122 industrial factories in khorat .
head to ambala cantonment area for the best bagh dupattas and dresses and you can also try the state emporium in delhi .
tourist places like birla mandir , charminar , golconda fort , salnejung museum are found here .
a rich collection of the indian armory is among other exhibits of the museum behind the city palace is an artificial lake built in 1815 a . d . by maharaj vinay singh with few temples along its banks .
the lake has a rest house of the irrigation department on the embankment below , the rest house has a beautifully laid out garden interspersed with exquisite sculptures excavated from the ruins nearby .
kovalam consists of three successive small crescent beaches - lighthouses , hawah and samudra .
in the 1990-1994 periods , the people grew at a rate 1.6 % per year or in the lower level that of the population national growth amounted to 2.144 % per year .
north dakota is located in the northern great plains and is borders : bordered by the canadian provinces of saskatchewan and manitoba on the north , minnesota ( east ) , south dakota ( south ) , and montana ( west ) .
significant historic moments of the past 2000 years are depicted through life size figures .
a fascinating escape where tourists , holiday makers and vacationers from around the world unfold an incomparable array of possibilities to unwind during an exotic holiday beach vacation .
on the seine side of the construction , the builders used watertight metal caissons and injected compressed air , so that they were able to work below the level of the water .
estimated to hold about 15 million people ( a census is on in the years 2000-2001 ) , the city has grown dramatically in the last fifty years .
you must try the hot favourite of the locals the sea food , including fish and squid chopped up and fried and come at about rs. 15 a quarter plate .
new jalpaiguri ( 77 kms away ) is the nearest mainline rail station for kalimpong .
the lowest square , 55 . 9 m ( 183 . 4 ft ) high with a cylindrical core ; the middle octagonal with a side length of 18 . 30 m ( 60 . 0 ft ) and a height of 27 . 45 m ( 90 . 1 ft ) ; and the third circular 7 . 30 m ( 24 . 0 ft ) high .
river rafting in india is yet another facet of tourism which is replete with the exuberance of youth and the skill of boatmen which are both natural qualities becoming extinct in the urban age of today where risk taking even in a leisurely mode has become an outmoded practice .
the ornate cottages are surrounded by rustling coconut trees and well kept gardens in kumarakom lake resort .
punnami taramati is a cultural complex with an amphitheater , rehearsal rooms , food courts , and 24 rooms and six suites , it s an inspired place of architecture .
the agra fort is auricular in shape and its colossal double walls rise 20 m in height and measure 2. 5 m in circumference .
the festival of lohri , also known as maghi , is celebrated in most areas of himachal in the mid-winter season and commemorates the last sowing of the rabi crop .
built during his years in aurangabad were such architectural gems as the bibi ka maqbara , a mausoleum with a marked resemblance to the taj mahal and a medieval watermill .
following the black hawk war , the sauk and fox indians were forced to make their first land cessions west of the mississippi .
florida has a semi-tropical climate ideally suited for outdoor activities .
there are small hotels in hampi that i find very charming while the bandipur wildlife resort is also another favorite , what with the dence forests as a backdrop .
the sight and sounds in jammu and kashmir will eliminate urban blues-serene winter , golden summer , fiery autumn or colourful spring , each season is special when you are in jammu and kashmir .
farukkabad is full of shops selling lovely handprints , with traditional motifs like buti and the tree of life .
the most gorgeous examples of the shining zardozi embroidery are found in agra .
a restored white and blue portuguese villa with shady balconies all around it , casa goa is the place to go for antique furniture , paintings and sculpture .
indian airlines and jet airways have convenient connections to cochin from delhi , mumbai as well as other important south indian cities .
chandni chowk was the pulse of mughal delhi s commercial life and was designed by jahanara begum , the favourite daughter of shah jahan in 1648 .
go fishing at hiranya keshi , picnic at nagatta falls , mahadev gad and narayan gad , sightseeing at the bauxite mines , sea view and shirgaonkar .
the region around bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations , the two notable ones being shivaganga ( 4599 ft. high ) and savandurga .
in 1673 , at the close of the french and indian war , the treaty of paris ceded to england all lands france had claimed east of the mississippi river , except for new orleans in louisiana .
about 35 km from hyderabad , the drive to pragati takes over an hour .
he married the hindu princess of jaipur , and her brother raja man singh became one of his trusted lieutenants .
an enchanting backwater destination , kumarakom offers visitors many other leisure options .
in garhwal region the sacred river ganga offers the professional as well as the amateur the exhilaration of white water rafting .
perhaps our biggest and most exciting plan is the mega theme-cum-amusement park on the outskirts of chandigarh and a multimedia-cum-film city and we are expecting at least a million visitors to the theme park annually .
the original machines in the west and east piers ( up to the first floor only ) were provided by the french company roux combaluzier lepape , using hydraulically powered double looped chains and rollers in side guides .
gorkha is a scenic hill - town with great historical significance situated on a small hillock at an attitude of about 1000 m , gorkha offers panoramic view of snow-fed mountain .
this is also the best place to shop for the saris .
the nanga parbat 8 , 126 metres massif is the western anchor of the great himalayan range which stretches in an arc 24 , 124 km. east to burma , a boundary and barrier , `` the razor 's edge `` which for centuries has determined the destiny of the indian sub-continent. .
in the vast amphitheatre of the indian himalayas and karakorams , there are limitless possibilities for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river rafting .
central java is the island 's cultural , geographic , and historic heartland. universities , dance schools , pottery , handicrafts , textiles and carving , give to the region a rich culture and interesting shopping .
akhara bazaar is a great place to pick up colourful kullu shawls and caps .
the khatris and aroras established their businesses and the town grew around its central nucleus .
located to the south of the twin bridges , zhang house has more than 70 rooms and takes up about 1 , 800 square meters ( less than half an acre .
the other places of historical interest in srinagar in kashmir , india are martand that has a temple that is dedicated to the hindu deity , surya or the sun god , the kheer bhawani temple that is dedicated to the goddess ragnya devi and the avantipur ruins .
many of these are common with the rest of the country ; some are celebrated with a distinct touch that carries the flavor of the city .
while chennai celebrates most major indian festivals , pongal - the harvest festival is tamil nadu 's own festival .
the guru refused , and was tortured and killed by salim , who had then become the ruler , emperor jahangir .
depending on the season , try mango , figs , sapota or sharifa flavors , you can t eat just one .
on the street winding past the moti masjid are keema samosas and seekh kebabs in a makeshift barbecue .
the diwaniaam is where the public could have an audience with the emperor .
india offers a wide range of adventure sports for tourists .
another interesting historical site in orissa that you must pay a visit to while on temple tours to orissa is the mukteswara temple in bhubaneshwar , orissa , india .
the main temple is surrounded by a number of other small temples that are dedicated to chaitanya guru , the saint who was known for his love and dedication to the hindu deity lord krishna .
these were tens of life-size as well as under and over life-size free-standing statues of people , lions , horses , and other animals .
one can enjoy a pleasure ride on road flanked by green tea beds on either side .
the infinite wonders of iguassu can not be described in words .
apana : this rooftop restaurant offers a real feast for seafood buffs with a sea view to match .
the old town hall has become the jakarta museum , displaying such rare items as indonesia 's old historical documents and dutch period furniture .
the british gained control of the area in 1763 by the treaty of paris , but had to cede almost all the alabama region to the u .s . after the american revolution .
mumbai is a city that is disciplined by no time frame-neither by day nor night .
the colossus of rhodes was not only a gigantic statue .
the project was conceived by his wife and sister artemisia , and the construction might have started during the king 's lifetime .
the tourist office also has a counter at the ajmer railway station .
there were occasions , however , when the two parties were able to unite to see off a common threat .
on special holy days qawwalis ( devotional songs ) are performed in the nakkar khana .
its rich flora , diversity of demography and biodiversity makes it one of the most poetically pleasing hill stations in india .
singapore 's leading hotel : raffles hotel singapore 's leading spa resort : the sentosa resort & spa .
fort william is another historical spot with its foundation being laid in 1757 and bears the marks of the legendary lord clive .
there are also buses if you are traveling light and want to savor the local culture right off .
labuhan sesaji : a thanksgiving ceremony held by fishermen of muncar , banyuwangi , and suro .
bhojan is grand showcasing of typical oriya cuisine , where you can try everything from vegetarian dishes to meaty preparations and sweet delights .
the hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from jain mythology .
it was rather a symbol of unity of the people who inhabited that beautiful mediterranean island - - rhodes .
prepare to be enchanted by the wondrous colours that carpet the ground on a trek to the valley of flowers .
this monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of indo-islamic architecture .
jeep safaris are organized in every part of rajasthan , but safaris organized to the bishnoi village near jodhpur have a special attraction for tourists .
today , florida attractions , such as the large theme parks in the orlando area , bring millions of visitors to the state from across the u .s . and around the world .
and it was the beauty of the tomb rather than its size that fascinated its visitors for years .
hat tham phra nang beach is the location of the 5-star rayavadee resort , a private property that occupies 26 acres of the beach and the only compound located near phra nang beach .
there are a number of important tourist spots just beyond the city limits of aurangabad the buddhist caves at ajanta , the rock temples of ellora , the caves at pithalkhora , the fortress of daulatabad , paithan , famed for its woven masterpieces , the pilgrim centre of grishneshwar and khuldabad , the final resting place of the mughal emperor aurangzeb .
chowpatty is a popular beach where celebration of festivals such as coconut day and the ganesh chaturthi immersions take place .
this 42 meter high structure is a war memorial in honour of soldiers who died during the second world war. the structure has an eternal flame ( amar jawan jyoti ) to honour the memory of the unknown soldiers .
gangtok s lively sunday market , lal bazaar is a riot of colour , and is sikkim at its most vibrant .
ao nang is located approximately 6 kilometers from hat noppharat thara and 20 kilometers from the town of krabi .
foreign language audio commentary is available in french , spanish , german , dutch , italian , russian and japanese .
wake up to the chirping of birds , enjoy a relaxing message and let the lapping of waves lull you to sleep .
moradabad , tiny town is now synonymous with brass artifacts that even find their way from here across the seas into harrods and selfridges .
the building aside , the taj mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love .
the story of mysore silk began in 1912 , when the wodeyar royal family imported 32 looms from switzerland to nurture the local art of weaving .
most hotels are located on the arterial station road .
hallowed by the memories of the great seer , ajmer has earned the epithet of madinatul hind or the madina of india .
when the spanish arrived from peru in the 1530s , they found that while many of the inhabitants were hostile , others hailed them as liberators from inca repression .
girdled by deciduous with many species of fish , this lake commands your attention at all times .
at the crowded ghanta ghar , slip into old shops that stock mementoes of udaipur 's battle - scarred past .
the northwestern corner of the complex was planted some 450 year ago by the temples first head priest .
asians are 1.1 percent of the people , native americans 0.4 percent , native hawaiians and other pacific islanders 0.1 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 2.3 percent .
the unparalleled beauty of these islands , create in men a love of nature with a caressing tenderness , a wistful fondness for all its delicate nuances .
soak in the sun on diu s unspoilt beaches , enjoy leisurely rambles on its narrow lanes , and return with unforgettable memories of its picture book landscape .
in the bilaspur is a vyas gufa , which draws a continuous host of tourists and pilgrims .
the hustle-bustle of the market , coupled with the loud chattering of 3 , 000 women , is an experience worth having .
as an important tourist destination the ins and outs of travel in ajmer are well documented in many a tourist guide .
pride of place here goes to the gigantic kailasa temple , the world s largest monolithic sculpture , which required hours of diligent chiseling , sculpting and carving and scooping out of an estimated 200 , 000 tons of basalt rock , with absolutely no margin for error .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of temple tours to uttaranchal , india .
the rooftop discotheque and upmarket clientele make it one of shillong s biggest hot spouts .
20 km . near belur math on the other ( calcutta ) side of the hooghly ( ganga ) river , dakshineswar kali temple is famous for its association - with ramkrishna who achieved spiritual vision here .
ko hai island is accessible by taking a ferry and a chartered boat from pak meng pier , trang province .
situated 60 kms from bangalore , at a height of 1478m above sea level , is the nandi hills resort .
dandiya rasa celebrates the community spirit and togetherness , as dancers move in a circle constantly interacting with their neighbor through the striking the dandiya .
besides the above mentioned temples you could also visit other important temple sites during your temple tours to kolkata , india and these are : a kalna shiva temple located in kalna , the kapil muni temple at diamond harbor , kanak durga temple at midnapore , the kiriteshwari temple at murhsidabad , the lalji temple located at midnapore in kolkata , india. so come and visit the temples of kolkata in west bengal , india .
this allahabad city was the heart of the indian freedom movement against the british rule with anand bhawan being the epicenter ; it was in allahabad the mahatama gandhi proposed his program of nonviolent resistance to liberate india .
to the north , legendary hunza confirms its reputation as one of the world s great mountain communities .
naga food cay be too out there for some , but you can also go easy on your stomach and opt for simple dishes like chicken with ginger and bamboo shoots , which still have a lot of flavour .
then in the early 1800s mount abu was developed into a hill station where british officials from the hot , dusty plains of rajasthan could seek refuge during the summer months , among the eucalyptus forests and oleanders .
shopping can be both an exciting as well as taxing experience in agra .
eiffel built hundreds of metal structures of all kinds all around the world .
queen victoria was the first monarch to take up residence here after the architect john nash transformed it from buckingham house into a palace .
upper bhavani is about 10 kms. from korakundah and about 20 kms. from avalanche .
hills and makes nainital a unique hill station in india .
the creation of a painting is a procedure in stages first , a board is prepared , and the painting done on unbleached cloth , is fixed to it .
north of pokhara is an area protected by the annapurna conservation area project , tucked beneath the southern slopes of the annapurna massif .
india , long considered only a culture destination , is in addition the ultimate outdoor destination as well as with wide ranging options for adventure .
35 kms from bangalore at hesaraghatta is the famous nritya gram , a centre for dance that imparts extensive training in seven dance disciplines and two martial art forms to residential students .
opposite the old bailey is the church of the holy sepulcher .
visit kutch to truly experience the rich tapestry of colors that is gujarat .
north dakota became the 39th state to unite under america on november 2 , 1889 .
at the same time , chiang mai residents are warm , gracious and congenial providing authentic hospitality making visits memorable and meaningful .
the historic karakoram pass 5 , 575 metres , an ancient trading route between kashmir and xinjiang , gives its name to the range west of it that forms the watershed between the indus and the central asian deserts .
for 16 centuries , the mausoleum remained in good condition until an earthquake caused some damage to the roof and colonnade .
no yellow topped taxis run in ahmedabad , only private tourist taxis or the auto rickshaws whose fare has to be negotiated before boarding .
stay in the lap of nature , with sunny beaches , serene backwaters or enchanting forests forming the backdrop .
through some local pr efforts , and support in late 1848 from president polk himself , a gold mania swept the states and the world resulting in the remarkable 49er migration .
he devoted the last thirty years of his life to his experimental research .
india is a peninsular surrounded by water on three sides namely the indian ocean , bay of bengal and arabian sea .
the low season of phuket is between september and october as they are the wettest months .
across five indian states spread the mighty himalayas are compressed in this expanse is the widest monotonic geographical variety .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord vishnu .
sing-ju hot and spicy and is eaten after lunch or in the evening .
located far from the sea , south dakota enjoys a continental climate , with hot summers and cold winters made more bitter by winds that sweep across the treeless plains .
the area to the west and northwest of the state , which had been in the territory , was commonly known as the `` missouri country `` until may 30 , 1854 , and certain of the post offices in this area show a missouri abbreviation in the postmark .
more than 3 , 000 tibetans have made dharamsala their emporary home , living mostly in mcleod ganj .
some of these are the ahileshwar temple located at maheshwar close to indore in madhya pradesh , india , bateswara mahadev temple at batesara , bridh kaleshwar at ujjain , cave temples at udayagiri , chatturbhuj temple at gwalior , sasbahu temple at gwalior , mahakala temple at ujjain , devji temple at ujjain , shiva temple at bhojpur near bhopal , madhya pradesh , india and the omkareshwar temple at indore .
an imagination of dance and context that is simply fascinating .
quite truly , the thrill of skiing remains unparalleled as the elements are defeated exhilaration swells up in skiing , the use of only the simplest forms of implements adds to the adventure .
dalhousie , gateway to chamba , the `` vale of milk and honey `` , sparkling and impetuous streams .
as a climber , you can not afford to suffer from vertigo or a lapse of judgment .
the temple of dhathamandir is situated on the jhelum valley .
when they decided to fortify it in 1494 , they used the stones of the mausoleum . by 1522 , almost every block of the mausoleum had been disassembled and used for construction .
set amidst the 300 acres of coffee and spice plantation , the orange county is a good place to begin to experience the hospitality of coorg .
when mixed with coloure and hard work , this humble material is transformed into vividly colourful nature-inspired or geometrical patterns that find their way on top of little cane boxes or decorate terracotta figurines .
there are 7 temples in the complex - handraprabhu , parasnath , shitalnath , sambhavnath , shantinath , kunthunath and rikhabdev temple , the temples are all connected by a series of corridors and walkways .
blissfully remote and uniquely beautiful , the tranquil environment of chotanagpur offers an ideal escape from the restrictions of civilization .
set in over 50 acres of forest , the bundelkhand riverside palace stands on the banks of the betwa river .
hyderabad also boasts of one of the largest zoos in india , the nehru zoological park .
the region was later claimed by france. in 1699 , a french group under sieur d'iberville established the first permanent settlement near present-day ocean springs .
however , their lot quickly worsened after that , and many native americans were killed or confined to reservations .
the site india travel destinations takes you on tours to historical monuments in kashmir , india and gives you details of tour booking and online reservation for tours to historical monuments in the kashmir region in india .
the alphabet that he invented in 1283 was essentially the same as that in use today .
se in a portuguese style building , ras resort is located on the banks of damanganga raiver .
but all of this would be of little value if it were not for the links provided by the docklands light railway , with its system of driverless trains weaving ingeniously between ultra-modern architecture and smartly converted old warehouses , rather like a sedate roller coaster .
national parks & monuments include crater lake , john day fossil beds , oregon caves , newberry .
visakapattinam in andhra pradesh is also a good city having one of the biggest harbors of india carrying out large exports and imports .
three stocks of populaces / tribes to be more precise inhabit arunachal pradesh , a prominent hill station in india .
in taj mahal semi octagonal pilasters that rise from the plinth of the main tomb have demarcated sections in each facade .
ninro is a fern that grows in the mountains , and its tendrils are delicious when sauteed with chhurpi .
located in the heart of amritsar , the temple complex is surrounded by a maze of narrow lanes , or katras , that house one of the busiest markets in india .
despite being relatively central , fulham is also the home to two professional football clubs n fulham and chelsea .
traveling to ajmer might turn into an exercise that confirms your worst fears of the spiritual meeting the commercial and a tourist will find this out as soon as he lays foot in the city .
shop in the markets of the old city for everything from antiques and bric-a-brac to fine silks and cotton textiles .
ajmer is also the base for visiting pushkar ( 11 km . ) , the abode of lord brahma , lying to its west with a temple and a picturesque lake .
an hourly bus service is available from aurangabad to the nearby town of jalgaon via ajanta .
skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience , which does not require special gear like other higher end sports of the same genre .
people visit these sidh peeths regularly to revere the deity .
building of taj mahal besides the miraculous architectural features and the elaborate ornamentation of the taj mahal , many additional features , which can often be overlooked , help complement and enhance this spectacular monument .
the london dungeon brings more than 2 , 000 years of gruesomely authentic history vividly back to life and death .
the great wall has long been incorporated into chinese mythology and popular symbolism .
there are a sizeable number of atms in chandigarh and amritsar .
with competition fierce among the fur companies for control of the western lands , adventurous trappers , called mountain men , became the first white people to know the region well .
native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 1 , 628. hispanics , who may be of any race , were 2.4 percent of the population .
classes run the gamut of traditional chinese medicine ( tcm ) anti-aging workshop which imparts the knowledge of cooking with chinese herbs , the art of chinese tea making , to yoga health foods , spa cuisine , wine appreciation workshops and cuisine-based classes with a twist , such as indian finger foods and lazy sunday brunch cooking .
one can visit these places in this order , first visit renuka then nahan and lastly paonta sahib from shimla side or the vice versa .
these 31 jain temples are somewhat later in origin that the vishnu temple , but are no less remarkable .
along with all the usual five-star amenities , the place is also known for its therapy centre , which offers holistic and indigenous herbal treatments .
the illuminated st. philomena church in the evening is a wonderful site not to be missed .
lime washed churches , bustling markets , rainswept beaches and an unhurried rhythm of life come to this scenic state ; goa , and get acquainted with the many moods of a tourist heaven that is redolent of a glorious era gone by .
there is a very interesting stupa constructed on elevated terrace which is the first of its kind in andhra pradesh .
india travel destinations provides a window of opportunity through which tourists and interested travelers can go ahead and explore the natural beauty of manali , the prominent hill station in india .
in 1860 the national debate over the extension of slavery into new territories reached a crescendo .
sink your teeth into the sweet crab meat , slurp up the delicious juice inside a mussel and top it all off with a glass or two of white wine .
to make each experience truly worthwhile for travelers , we plan to upgrade facilities in the state , especially at pilgrimage centers .
the beaches , museums , forts and jail on the andaman island are some of the circuits you will do at a leisurely pace once you are here .
fascinating and colorful , you ll love the music and the energy .
india travel destinations organizes and arranges for tours to ooty with its vast paraphernalia of linked tours and excursions to the nearby sylvan environs .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
apart from ooty it is one of the most visited honeymoon destinations in india , especially in the western ghats , as honeymooners in india will vouch face .
you may even hire 4wds but buses are definitely safer because they move with armed escorts .
the summer festivals is held each year during the month of may in the botanical garden and is an added attraction for tourists .
the agra fort is encircled by a fetid moat .
dudhwa tiger reserve is home to a large number of rare and endangered species which includes tiger , leopard , swamp deer , hispid hare , bengal florican , etc .
winter skiing in garhwal is , now , professionally conducted at the auli slopes .
find the most luxurious carpets in uttar pradesh ; the state is the largest carpet making region in the country .
eco-tourism is typically defined as travel to destinations where the flora , fauna , and cultural heritage are the primary attractions .
though agra is more famous world over as the city of taj , agra fort is another dimension to the city that attracts tourists in hordes .
the kapasi showrooms are also geared up to transport heavy furniture , and even air freight or ship them overseas so those brightly painted , authentic gujarati jhoola need not be remain a a wistful dream .
the converted portuguese market is accustom notified good market and is a great place to pick up important knickknacks at reasonable price .
jaisalmer is also famous for its embroidery , rajasthani mirror work , rugs , blankets , antique , and stonework and camel safaris into the barren sand-dunned desert .
hyderabad , the fifth largest metropolis of india , is the state capital of andhra pradesh , known for its rich history and culture with monuments , mosques , temples , a rich and varied heritage in arts , crafts and music .
all three cities have direct connections with medan , batam , padang and jakarta and the future will see the introduction of flights to singapore .
leather , wool and silk carpets , stone sculptures , jewellery and inlay work are the major revenue earners .
if you re in pattadakal towards the end of january , there s every chance you ll catch the annual classical dance festival held here .
emile nouguier and maurice koechlin , the two chief engineers in eiffel 's company , had the idea for a very tall tower in june 1884 .
for the authentic mughai non-vegetarian food , look no further than the bunch of small restaurants and stalls clustered near , jama masjid .
wood fossil park is one of the best excursion sites available in the surroundings of jaisalmer .
the powder-soft snow at gulmarg , gund , pahalgam and sonamarg , ideal for skiing , has been acclaimed the world over .
using vegetable and demons , as well as use animal and floral motifs .
some people even tried to escape the firing by jumping into a well in the complex , but drowned and died .
today , while the surrounding hills , with their waterfalls and bamboo and eucalyptus groves are still extremely charming , mount abu itself has become an overcrowded and gaudy little town .
jaipur is also famous for marble statues , blue pottery and the rajasthani shoes .
dadra & nagar haveli , with its sprawling greens , serene water bodies , unfrequented tree lined streets , unyielding forts and mesmerizing havelis , this tiny dot on the map is cocooned in its own obscure charm .
the great mughal emperor babar laid out this earliest example of a mughal garden .
munnar has a lot of significance in its nomenclature and its glorious historical backdrop too , makes it no lightweight .
the tiracol fort hotel is run by same couple who operate the nilaya hermitage german fashion stylist claudia ajawni and her husband hari so it is little wonder that two suites and five double rooms are elegant and quaint all at the same time .
the colors and texture of gujarat are at their most varied and vibrant in the districts of kutch , where embroidery thrives as an intricate , precious art .
the magnificent scene of the world 's highest peaks seen during trekking are marvellous and trekkers make it a memory for life .
private transport is the best for most travelers as public transport system leaves a lot to be desired .
enter through the stone archways to your table set in magenta and peech , and lit gently with discreet lamps .
but it is not the only ones to be noted ; dieng plateau and sukuh temple are worth a visit. performing arts is still widely practiced , and traditional dance dramas ( wayang orang ) or shadow puppets ( wayang kulit ) performances are easy to find .
and from a linguistic standpoint , it gave its name - - pharos - - to all the lighthouses in the world .
eat it with steamed rice .
on the sprawling lawns here , is a beautiful marvel temple with beautiful carving of fruits , flowers , leaves and plants which have been reduced into stone true to nature , and are distinctive specimens of the plastic arts .
among the early trading groups was the st. louis missouri fur company , manual lisa established a post for this company in 1812 near the site where lewis and clark held council with indian tribes in present washington county .
it has attained lorish and legendary proportions both for tourists who have visited the glacier and the prospective ones who are yet to live the experience of this locale rich in grassy slopes and numerous picnic spots .
parashuram kund is a prominent pilgrimage site .
one can stay in highland monastery villages and small settlements in pristine forests .
during your temple tours to kolkata , india you can visit the dakshineswar kali temple that is associated with the saint ramakrishna paramhansa .
places of nighttime entertainment have also sprung up and are popular among international tourists .
women wear a multihued wrap around skirt for a moment you may wonder if you are in a south american city ! for detailed state information click on .
interestingly , the strong colors are made by mixing pigments with milk and mahua liquor .
no two travelers will ever see the same icebergs forged in exactly the same form , such is its ephemeral and austere beauty .
scattered by successive crop failures , the survivors reorganized in 1890 , obtaining a sliver of property in northeastern indian territory .
hollywood has long been the world capital of motion-picture and television film production , in turn drawing numerous tourists .
the spices board of kerala has under its ambit two major nurseries , with one being at chithirapuram , which enjoys a deeper identity as a hill station in india .
october to february is considered to be the best period to visit jaisalmer .
experiencing the merging of the past into the present in chiang mai where locals are proud of the city 's 700-year history .
besides original tribe , some foreign tribes stay here such as arabic , chinese , indian and pakistani. `` kebaya `` is representing traditional clothes wearied by woman .
the tow honeymoon suites in daman ganga valley resort are specially designed to make you feel like royalty , with their stylish furniture , ornate beds and a balcony to sit and gaze lovingly into each other s eye .
other early explorers included the hunt party in 1811 and major long s expedition in 1819 .
statue of lord buddha in dhyana mudra is being made which will be ready just before the kalachakra event begins and this is just near the original maha stupa of amaravati .
scots-irish , highland scots , germans , and welsh also arrived in the 18th century , many from the colony of pennsylvania .
from guwahati to aizawl , the capital of mizoram , it is a 506 km drive and there are plenty of buses and taxis that cover the distance .
situated at about 10 km from the ooty town , dodabetta peak is one of the most prominent view points around ooty .
it is well known for its medieval temples and chaugan , a public promenade .
this ancient and holy temple is located close to patnitop and is famous for the asad purnima festival that is organized here annually .
for a quich lunch try ghee rice mixed with karampodi ( gunpowder ) or curd rice with curd chilli ( dry red chilies marinated in curd and deep fried .
vawksa rep ( roasted pork ) and sa-um ( fermented pork fat ) are some of the most popular dishes .
the best time to enjoy one of these islands to the fullest is from april to november .
the people of god s own country many of them english speaking are traditionally hospitable , making every guest feel at home .
the fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders akbar and later jehangir and shahjahan .
dive shops around rai le and ao nang provide dive trips as well as rent diving and snorkeling gear such as mask/snorkel/fin at the rate of 150 baht / set / day ( with a deposit of 500 baht .
in 1763 , the treaty of paris ceded formerly french-controlled land , including the wisconsin region , to the british , who later passed it on to the united states .
jefferson davis is inaugurated as president of the confederate states of america on february 18th of the same year .
take a jeep ride through the vast plantations , visit the cardamom kiln , go on a bird watching expedition or try your hand a round of golf at the company s golf course , while you re there .
in an attempt to increase the non-indian population , foreigners of all types were admitted .
arkanasas is bordered by missouri on the north , tennessee & mississippi ( east ) , louisiana ( south ) , texas & oklahoma ( west ) .
dragon jewellery , although not many are aware of it , sikkim produces some truly exquisite jewellery .
all visitors are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the mount rushmore state , coyote , blizzard state , south dakota was named for the dakota tribe ; dakota is a sioux word meaning `` friends `` or `` allies . '' .
the project was conceived and initiated by ptolemy soter around 290 bc , but was completed after his death , during the reign of his son ptolemy philadelphus .
a traditional meghalaya dish prepared with fermeted soya and pork , turrmbai is a local favorite .
the island was connected to the mainland by means of a dike - the heptastadion - which gave the city a double harbor .
the golden state , california takes its name from a make-believe island filled with gold in a spanish novel .
for the budget traveler , the maghalaya tourism-run hotel pinwood is a great choice .
magnificent mountain scenery include the crater and sea of sand at mount bromo , the `` sulfur mountain `` welirang and rugged lien plateau .
located at the heart of the desert , this city of rajasthan is the majestic jewel of rajasthan 's eternal crown .
the main taxi stand is near the bus stand from where one can hire taxis to ellora and the fortress of daulatabad .
important tourist places in the city are the umaid bhawan palace , mahendragarh fort , jaswant thada and mandore gardens .
aurangabad is famous for a variety of beautiful textiles perfected by craftsmen and weavers down centuries .
itmaduddaulah is the tomb of mirza ghyas beg , a persian who had obtained service in akbar court .
the hotel has a charming bar and one of the best restaurants gracing these parts .
to the east are commercial houses and the west bengal government tourist bureau .
parallel to the mall is the market area , which is only open to pedestrian traffic .
ajmer is especially famous for the dargah shariftomb of the sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chisti , which is equally revered by the hindus and muslims .
dharamshala literally means ' the holy refuge .
in 1762 , the entire louisiana territory was ceded to spain , and spanish governors offered free land and no taxes to encourage settlers to inhabit the area .
the village atmosphere is further enhanced by the presence of a village pond and village green , both of which are overlooked by the centuries old sun inn .
around & about by air ahmedabad is connected to mumbai , delhi and major cities of india by air .
not all banks accept traveler s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it .
almora spread over a horseshoe ridge at a height of 1 , 646 meters is almora , once the centre of kumaoni culture and the capital of the chand dynasty .
the headwaters of this mighty yellow river lie in kunlun mountains in northwestern qinghai province .
hiding a wide variety of flora and fauna , and some endangered species , orissa s wildlife parks are a treat for the wildlife bluff .
several championship rallies are held in india every year .
the administrative center of east java is located in surabaya , the second largest city in indonesia and a major industrial center and port .
the army , in a state of panic , rolled tanks into the complex and fired on the akal takht , the seat of sikh religious authority .
an excursion to ooty during the tea festival , living it up in the middle of tea followers hailing from all across the globe , makes ooty a unique hill station in india .
its honesty and plainness of appearance intensified the artistic debate that had been opened thirty years earlier , giving form to the division between architects and engineers , between art and science , and embodying a new type of expression through structure and space .
this ancient temple is surrounded by a number of other temples that are dedicated to several hindu deities who find a mention in the hindu epic , ramayana .
vasco da gama , discoverer of the sea route to india , established the first portuguese factory ( trading station ) in cochin in 1502 , and the portuguese viceroy alfonso de albuquerque built the first european fort in india in 1503 .
climbing during winters is , however , possible , besides high mountains , karakoram is inhabited by the largest glaciers outside the polar region .
the weather is the city 's best feature , with pleasant summers and bearable winters .
recent archeological excavations at the site revealed gifts from pilgrims including statuettes of artemis made of gold and ivory . . . earrings , bracelets , and necklaces . . . artifacts from as far as persia and india .
from fatehpur sikri there are regular buses plying to the bharatpur bird sanctuary about 25 kms away .
the food in anand bhoj , the hotel s in house restaurant , is excellent , and makes a stay here that much more unforgettable .
the bus stand in ajmer is located near the rtdc hotel khadim and the railway is further north and most of the hotels are west of the stations .
of the total population in 2000 , whites constitute 76.2 percent , native americans 7.9 percent , blacks 7.6 percent , asians 1.4 percent , native hawaiians and other pacific islanders 0.1 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 6.9 percent .
unmetered taxis , auto : rikshaws , tempos and cycle rikshaws are the main mode of transportation within the jodhpur city .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding temple tours to kolkata , india .
the train coaches are pulled and pushed by two 1920s vintage oil fired steam engines to climb 1200 meters through 34 tunnels and 92 bridges and culverts .
an added attraction for the tourists to udagamandalam is the mountain train journey on a ratchet and pinion track which commences from kallar , near mettupalayam and wends its way through many hair-raising curves and fearful tunnels and chugs along beside deep ravines full of verdant vegetation , gurgling streams and tea gardens .
cheerfully furnished , furnished , each cottage stands in a private nook , undisturbed by other visitors .
the jyotirlingam located inside the main sanctum of this temple is considered to be one of the 12 most sacred shiva lingams in india .
rather more palatable is the locally produced port wine , known as vinho do porto , while the better port brands are bosco and caravela .
nevertheless `` mangal dham `` is a memorial built in this divine memory in 1993 .
france ceded the territory of west louisiana ( including kansas ) to spain in the treaty of paris of 1763 , which ended the french and indian wars. in 1800 , spain gave it back to france .
the haat is built to resemble a village , resplendent in brick and terracotta , paved in stone with plenty of green .
nong khai is 615 kilometres from bangkok and has an area of 7 , 739 square kilometres .
andhra pradesh has given the world a number of forms of performing arts , handlooms and curios .
visit the bibi-ka-maqbara , built by aurangazeb as a tomb for his wife , an imitation of the taj mahal , a himroo factory where beautiful cotton and silk fabrics are produced , panchakki - a water - mill with in which there is a tomb of a muslim saint .
the two floridas remained loyal to great britain throughout the war for american independence ( 1776-83 ) .
over there they were still working on the bolts : workmen with their iron bludgeons , perched on a ledge just a few centimeters wide , took turns at striking the bolts ( these in fact were the rivets .
in 1166 , an arab traveler , abou-haggag al-andaloussi visited the lighthouse .
in the valleys , you ll find plain areas with vast green paddy fields and lush forests of evergreen and mixed deciduous trees .
it is estimated that phuket province covers an area of approximately 590 square kilometers if it s 39 other small islands are included .
a wide range of boats are available at the boat house to suit varied tastes and budgets .
arunachal pradesh is host to 20 odd tribes and a larger number of sub tribes that have their origin in one main stump but the geographic isolation down the years has lead to a distinctness , which can be deciphered but by a trained eye .
once the palace of maharaja jivajirao scindia , this heritage hotel usha kiran palace ( named after the maharaja s dughter ) is now in the hands of the taj group , who have added that extra touch of luxury and sophistiation to the lavishly decorated suites and deluxe rooms .
luangmual handicraft centre , at a distance of only 7 km from aizawl , with stunning mountain views , this place will make for a great day trip out of the capital .
a marvelous chhatri with unusual bengali roof and arches , also known as the moosi maharani ki chhatri is situated in this area .
bada bagh is a fertile oasis that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city of jaisalmer .
ajanta has been designated as a , to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will continue to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come .
you can scuba dive or snorkel in the mahatma gandhi national marine park .
great place to shop for all the must-buys featured on this list .
the grey granite sacred bull , nandi , is the main attraction after which the temple has been named .
clothing depends on place and time , however , it is recommended to have both light and warm clothing .
the multicuisine restaurant 24 / 7 is great for all-day dining , with an array of maxican , italian , mediterranea , indian and even banglorean dishes , while the pastry shops sells an assortment of immaculately baked treats to satisfy your sweet tooth .
artists in each dynasty painted with their distinctive palette and the visitor can tell the works in the tang dynasty from those in the song dynasty .
this ancient temple is set in the midst of sal trees .
the tipu sultan 's palace which is built of teakwood was constructed between 1781-1791 .
take in the entrancing beauty of gujarat s stark landscape , offset by its colorful people .
there are four variety of kasuti embroidery navge , murgi , menthya and gavanthi .
the mughal rulers erected several works of art as an admiration of this land .
most asians and blacks lived in metropolitan areas ; many of the native americans , mostly of the navajo , ute , gosiute , or shoshone peoples , live on reservation land .
better options for getting around in the park are the forest department jeeps and vans .
it stretches from the towering himalayan range in the north , to the foothills of the terai and the gangetic plains down to the east .
in the 2nd century , london ( then called londinium ) was controlled by the roman invaders , and a wall was built to protect it .
the lowlands , found further to east , are home to some of the nation 's most beautiful and important rivers : the putumayo , the napo , and the pastaza .
the manipuri dance is the culture symbol of the state. and it is indeed difficult to find a manipuri who can not sing or dance .
the mortal remains of dr. c.n. annadurai , former chief minister of tamil nadu was buried at the anna square which is at the northern end of marina beach .
the temple town of udipi is famous for its small images , while the jain centre karkala is known for its jain statues .
if you are an experienced cave diver , in search of an adventure , chapada da diamantina should be high on your list .
ladakh popularly known , as the rooftop of the world is another exquisitely planed height , which can serve as an ideal honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india .
bolghatty palace , situated on the palm-fringed bolghatty island , amidst 15 acres of lush green lawns , this palace was built by the dutch in 1744 .
pho khun pha muang and pho khun bang klang hao drove the khmers out of sukhothai , a major frontier post of the khmer empire , and established it as their capital in 1238 .
the aarti on ganga s banks , light dancing on the water , people calling out to the heavens , is a sight unlike any other .
and while you are at silvassa circle , do visit some of the ut s portuguese past , such as impressive havelis with intricate carvings around their doors , which gives the place its name .
the immortal akshaya vat tree within the patalauri temple , has found mention in the description of several ancient scriptures , writers and historians .
at 3000 feet above the sea level , in the bababudangiri hills of chilmanglur , you defiantly are a little closer to nirvana .
within the grounds of anand bhawan is the jawahar planetarium running four shows in hindi in a day , the planetarium is of special interest for stargazers .
if you have a sweet tooth , don t miss these : chhennapoda , acaramelised custard-like preparation ; rasballi , made of milk ; pithas , pancakes made of coconut , lentils and jaggery ; kalakand a grainy sweet made out of condensed milk ; the ubiquitous rasagulla ; and kakara that is made of powdered rice , jaggery , ghee and coconut .
large sections of the wall can be seen close to the museum of london and near tower hill station next to the tower of london .
finally , the dyes are added and the frame is chosen .
there are also numerous finely wrought gold and silver coins , gifted to the synagogue by various patrons .
salim singh ki-haveli is just three centuries old , and is still lived in , its arched roof is held up by well excluded brackets in the form of peacocks .
thus the city has a fairly large number of people who are retired from active life and others who are here for exclusive pleasure seeking .
just a few kilometers away are two undiscovered beaches nandgaon and kashid .
one of the idols inside the sanctum sanctorum is small and would be taken with the kings on their hunts .
the temperature is around 28 c during the day , but can go down to 4 c at night .
watch out for overenthusiastic tourist `` assistants `` that s where your wallet gets lighter .
the birth place of lord krishna , `` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations `` - mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
it was a small village made popular by the british who established shimla as there summer capital in 1864 ad .
every pore of jodhpur tells its own tales of heroic tales that made legends out of kings and soldiers , romances that continue to warm the heart and a time when epics were lived out on the streets by everyday man .
things began to change when eastern tribes began to move westward into oklahoma , most of them pushed out by white settlers .
paan is the perfect end to any meal , and comes in many varieties-stuffed with gulkhand , cardamom or grated coconut , among otheres .
the park contains a bronze sculpture made by rodin in 1895 of the burghers of calais ( the residents of calais in france who surrendered to edward iii in 1347 , during the hundred year s war between britain and france .
much portuguese architecture still exists in the cochin .
srigangapatnam , island fortress of hyder ali and his son tipu sultan is picturesquely located in the river cauvery .
the palace in chail which is one of the most ebullient of all hill stations in india is a treat to visit .
in the north it bears the world s highest mountain the himalayas .
the most suitable time to visit ko lanta is from november to april .
discourses are conducted here under a huge banyan tree which spreads to almost 40 , 000 sq. ft. of area .
laid in 1952 on the slopes of malabar hill the garden / children 's park offers a panoramic view of marine drive and chowpatty beach .
pho khun bang klang hao , urged by the people to be king , was enthroned with the royal title of pho khun si indrathit .
history lovers may prefer to wander among the ruins of the mighty khmer empire of the 11th-12th centuries .
colorado is located in the west-central united states ( rocky mountains ) . colorado is bordered by wyoming ( north ) , nebraska ( north & east ) , kansas ( east ) , oklahoma ( southeast ) , new mexico ( south ) , arizona ( southwest ) , utah ( west ) .
the tower was built in ochre stone brought from mirzapur , while the floors are made of marble and mosaic .
crystal gallery : discover the whimsical side of royal pursuits at the crystal gallery at the fateh prakash palace next door .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of my sore .
pilgrims from all over the country come to this shrine on temple tours , especially during the festival of shivratri .
with assam , mizoram and bangladesh as neighbors , the tiny state of tripura had a special place in nobel laureate robindranath tagore s heart .
the legendary chaikhanas are alpha in secunderabad ( it apparently serves 2 , 00 , 000 cups of tea daily ) , grand in abids , besides a shadab and madina in the charminar area .
while there are lodges and suites on the premises of yogamagic canvas ecotel. opt for the tents , all decorated with locally made furniture , silk cushions and colourful furnishings .
dalhousie square ( renamed benoy-badal-dinesh bagh after the three martyrs of bengal ) was created in the heart of the imperial capital of calcutta .
the cluster of islands offers a world of experience relics of the raj , india s only active volcano and a colorful marine life .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the garhwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
they will also arrange for a tourist guide from the tourist office for you .
porters engaged for 7 days or less shall be paid 50 % of the daily wages for the said period on the day they are engaged and the remaining 50 % shall be paid on the day they are discharged .
himalayas are adorned with beautiful valleys with enough slopes to be exploited positively for the sake of adventure sports .
at tranquil plantation hideaway you will climb on a tree to get the tree house .
nagaland is fascinating , if a vegetarian s nightmare .
and having access to reliable information is important in this city where there is a friendly ' guide ' at every corner .
others believe samba is simply african in origin and that it evolved from the batuque , a music based on percussion instruments and hand clapping .
in order to make the project more acceptable to public opinion , nouguier and koechlin commissioned the architect stephen sauvestre to work on the project 's appearance .
in earlier times , jaisalmer 's strategic position on the camel train route brought it great wealth .
verses from the granth sahib are inscribed on the doorway .
covering an area of 12 sq km , this fort fell only once to the army of akbar and that too because the water supply of the fort was contaminated by the enemy forces .
lal bagh also houses the offices of the karnataka horticultural society that renders free advice to those interested in flowers and gardens .
for a quick snack , try the smiley or the bambay toast for snacks .
flooding of water created shallow wetland ecosystem causing bharatpur bird sanctuary to be a perfect habitat for an astounding variety of birds .
the increasing amount of visitors during the late fifties led to the installation of large capacity machinery in the north pier in 1965 .
on the far eastern border of nepal lies mt. kanchenjunga ( 8586m ) , the third highest peak in the world.the valley approaching the mountain base camp has been opened to trekking , specifically for organized treks .
also , in the early part of 1996 , the building caught fire and almost became a towering inferno .
in a relatively compact area of 55 , 673 sq km , the altitude varies between 350 m and 7 , 000 m .
chikankari , today a style icon all over the world don kurtas , dresses and saris with the delicate chikan embroidery .
farm stay , haryana has been luring swish people to chuck their guccis for a taste of farm life , complete with messy buffalo rides and rustic haryanvi cuisine .
jesus urquirdes , one of several successful mexican business people , came to boise in 1863 , became a prominent pacific northwest packer and built the spanish village in 1870s to house his mexican packers .
windarmere hotel , the grand dame of darjeeling started out as a humble boarding house for english bachelors .
my all time favourite is the gol gumbaj at bijepur , i really love the sight of its massive dome touching the sky .
come to here and shopping bulk , taking home the bright but brittle toys at anything between rs. 10 and rs. 10 , 000. .
here one steps on to the edge of the trans-himalayan plateau that extends from tibet down into nepal .
however , 24 years later , the burmese succeeded in seizing thalang causing many local residents to flee to phang-nga and krabi .
it had its own chapel and many shops and houses too .
the chail wild life sanctuary is another showpiece in the itinerary of wares which chail , a royal hill station in india has to offer to its connoisseurs .
mogao caves are commonly known as the caves of a thousand buddhas .
a trip to the sam sand dunes marks the grand finale , where one can enjoy camel rides and brilliant performances by the folk artistes under the full moon against the backdrop of picturesque dunes .
they include the names of ani , manikaran , korpan , lug , banjar , garsa and the likes to make kullu , the hill station in india , rich in water .
from lahaul , the himalayas can be seen in their entire mighty splendor .
constructed with stone and marble , jantar mantar s complex instruments whose setting and shapes are precisely and scientifically designed represent the high points of medieval indian astronomy .
a short distance away from the city looms one of the most magnificent fortresses in india , the golconda fort .
look after your bags and purses particularly in crowded areas .
the minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen .
he was filled with an unquenchable thirst of world conquest .
this museum contains many relics pertaining to the tenure of the east india company and british india .
buddhist temple at kushinagar and among the ruins of nalanda you can still hear a distant echo of the chants of scholars of ancient times .
mizoram has come a long way-from turbulence between 1966 to 1986 to its present state of peace and prosperity .
the patna planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in asia and attracts a large number of domestic as well as foreign tourists .
the hotel , conveniently located , also serves authentic nanipuri cuisine. the manipuri tourism office is also based here .
khao lak is a coastal park full of birds , mammals and scenic waterfalls , with a number of hotel developments after tsunami disaster in december 2004 .
ajmer is a small town with only a few branches of indian banks .
dalhousie is spread over five hills and is different from other hill stations .
before coming together at the high pinnacle , the uprights appear to burst out of the ground , and in a way to be shaped by the action of the wind .
to get there , take highway no. 4 to khlong thom district , then turn left to route no. 4038 to lam hap sub-district. .
portions can be really small , so if you are eating at a khasi restaurant , remember to order two plates for a hearty meal .
built enormous and lavish in 1911 to replace the old palace in the fort that burned down , the maharaja s palace is an extravagance of domes , arches , turrets and sculptures .
manali is one of the most beautiful and popular hill stations known for lush and fresh scenic beauty .
located on the banks of the the tongbhadra , the delightfully rustic mango tree serves the best meals ( thalis ) in hampi .
bunder chowk a busy little shopping centre is excellent beachwear , shorts and export surplus garments that you can pick up for your seaside holiday .
we strongly advise you to make advance reservations to avoid disappointment .
gangadhareswara temple has been designed in such a manner that , on the festival of sankranti , a local festival , the rays of the sun pass between the horns of the nandi placed outside the temple , illuminating the image of lord shiva .
chapada diamantina , the surrounding 152 , 000 hectare national park , and the gateway city lencois , welcome you with rare natural spectacles and nostalgic charm .
situated atop the kalka hill , the bahai temple distinctive lotus shaped marvel in marble is surrounded by a landscaped garden .
there is a parval ka beeda , which may not sound terribly appetizing but taste divine .
the term eco-tourism has been widely used to describe a form of tourism in natural areas that is based on the knowledge about and responsibility towards the ecological system of the area .
you can graze at the narmada river flowing past the spectacular marble rocks from the comfortable rooms and well kept lawns of this charming motel , marble rocks .
river sports in the rapids are the most popular , throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping .
the region was ruled by spain until mexico won its independence in 1821. mexican then ruled the region until 1848 .
urs is celebrated from the ist to the 9th of rajab annually .
dolma s is a tibetan eatery , the fluffy pancakes , delicious spring rolls and lemon ginger tea are better than the momos and perfect for cold evenings ( mornings or afternoons .
foodies will relish the syrian christian duck roasts at ettukettu , the multicuisine restaurant. and for delicious prawns and fish , there s vembanad the seafood bar .
apart from this picture postcard beauty of kerala , a tour to chithirapuram reveals its agricultural importance to the more interested souls .
the airport is 13 km from the city centre .
many rajasthan roadways passenger and deluxe buses pass through kumbhalgarh from ajmer , pushkar , jodhpur and ajmer .
for such dishes , it s best to look for small stalls in rural areas. such as the ones near khecheolpari lake in yukson .
kakori kebabs are grilled on slow charcoal fires and proudly offerded in little eateries all over the village .
fleeing the religious persecution encountered in eastern and middle-western states , the mormons reached the great salt lake in 1847 and began to build salt lake city .
other attractions include the where gandhijis cottage `` hridaykunj `` , has been preserved much as he left it over 50 years ago ; the intricately carved , white marble ; the triple arched gateway ; the elaborately carved wooden ; the elegant architectural complex the 34sided and the ( step well .
kashmiries are justly proud of the literary glories of their land .
one of the best institutions called the indian institute of management and indian institute of science are here .
another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india is the amarnath shrine .
it offers more than a perpetual holiday for - the daydreamers , the painters , the artist , the trekkers , the vacationers and more. it brings you close to nature and yourself .
as her children had died young , she transmitted the crown to sangramraj , son of her brother udairaj , the ruler of lohara ( poonch ) .
si indrathit s brother , pho khun ramkhamhaeng , ascended the throne in 1278 and reigned for forty years .
phuket , polished pearl of the andaman is truly a destination that provides visitors with memorable experiences .
the great mughal emperor akbar commissioned the construction of the agra fort in 1565 , a.d. .
himachal was known since the earliest of times as `` devabhoomi `` , the abode of the gods .
the ornamental metal or wood combs in animal or bird shapes make great souvenirs .
several trains leave delhi daily for 15-hour journey to patna and from calcutta , the trip by rail takes around 12 hours .
for those who prefer thrills at the table , there s always the state s famously adventurous cuisine .
pattaya is nestled along a picturesque bay on the east coast of the gulf of thailand , roughly 170 kilometers southeast of bangkok .
most groups fly in and out of taplejung , which requires a plane change from biratnagar .
the lake and the cenotaph and the shrine of the hindu reformer swami dayanand , founder of the arya samaj movement in india , can be viewed from here .
the stupa of chankuna is a historical site that is an important historical monument that you must visit during your tours to historical monuments in kashmir , india .
another 3-tiered waterfall in khao phanom bencha national park , originating from a high-altitude cliff called namtok huai sa-de is located some 1.2 kilometers from the parks office .
at the draupadi ghat evidence of habitation and artifacts dating from 1100 till 800 bc were recovered .
kansas was organized as a territory on may 30 , 1854 and became the 34th state to unite under america on january 29 , 1861 .
at first bossa nova was played as an intimate music in the apartments of rio 's middle and upper-middle classes .
rooms at delhi s prestigious india habitat centre are only available to members , so you ll have to find somebody who can wangle one for you .
in the case of the maekong river , the nature-based tourism potential particularly applies to northeast thailand , an area that the tat has identified as a priority for tourism development .
from the top of the chanmundi hill one can have a panoramic view of mysore .
visa is mandatory except in the following cases bhutanese and nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months , nationals from the maldives , if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days .
tourist bungalows , the quaint charm of churachandpur are enhanced by the presence of the kuki tribals. the tourist bungalows , with its old-world looks , will not spoil you with luxury at all .
the green kashmiri tea , kahwa , honey colored brew , fragrant with saffron , almond and cinnamon .
this massive temple has four chambers of which one hall is meant for those who practice classical music and dance forms .
in jaisalmer the main shopping areas are sadar bazaar and sonaron ka bas , manak chowk , pansari bazaar .
a rock portion projecting overhead and having an angle of more than 90 degrees is called as overhang .
at that time , st. augustine was still a garrison community with fewer than five hundred houses , and pensacola also was a small military town .
the bridge also inspired the famous nursery rhyme ' london bridge is falling down ' ! the current rather dull looking bridge was completed in 1972 .
the first floor of gordon house , the hands down favourite , has a distinctly mediterranean feel , with summery blue - yellow-white decor a balearic tile mosaics .
gaitore is the final resting place of the maharajas of jaipur and is located just off the jaipur amber road .
parasailing is carried with great verve and brio in places of the order of , bundla dhar near bilaspur and intkali in pabbar valley near rohru in shimla district in himachal pradesh .
the jains have also left an indelible mark on the indian architecture , which is visible in the exquisite sculpture sun temple at ancient palitana , ajanta , ellora , and mount abu .
the views from the city are exceptional , especially of the chaltlang hill .
by train the city has six railway stations of which agra cantonment is the largest .
sea cone thailand , based in phuket , was the pioneering eco-tour company that launched thousands of travellers on their sea adventures .
most of the stone artisans live in baulagadia and nilgiri , but you can also buy in bhubaneshwar .
the intensity of the pools turquoise colored water varies according to the light and time of the day so visitors determined to see the real emerald color should plan to visit at dawn or early in the morning .
it was originally called lalbagh because the garden had a profusion of red roses .
if in the opinion of a physician / surgeon evacuation of a sick / injured porter from the mountains to a hospital in a district headquarters like gilgit , skardu or chitral is necessary then the party shall pay for his evacuation by a helicopter of other means. the decision of the leader about evacuation etc. shall be final .
the city that mughal emperor aurangzeb built in the dusk of his empire is aurangabad , the city that is base to the marvels of man - the ajanta and ellora caves .
alappuzha is also famous for its boat races , houseboat holidays , beaches , marine products and coir industry .
the kingdom enjoys such benefits as easy access , sophisticated infrastructure and myriad tourist attractions and activities .
if you are ready for the crowds and noise , they can be a great money saver .
the best place to have any of these is with mizo families .
much chaos and confusion ensued until a peace accord was signed with the government .
bhimtal is located at a motor able distance of 22 kilometers .
the thali is vegetarian but meat lovers have a tough choice between gongura mutton and fish curry .
to the south of the sangam along the yamuna lies the saraswati ghatand close by on the banks of the yamuna is the new , dedicated to lord shiva .
if only for the magnificent view of narmada , as it courses gently between the impressive marble rocks , try booking a room in circuit house , bhedaghat , a government guest house .
major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row .
the wooden house built on a tree is the main attraction in sanjay gandhi botanical garden .
the pallu of maheshwari saris features three colors , and reversible border , intricately patterned with floral motifs .
richard travithick produced the first locomotive by bringing the locomotive and railway invention together in 1804 .
in subsequent years motilal nehru s son pandit jawaharlal nehru spearheaded the struggle to its conclusion from anand bhavan ; the residence that has now been converted into a museum .
the main bus terminus is the idgah bus stand , close to the agra cantonment station .
particularly noteworthy are the floral designs on the walls and ceilings , after tipu 's death the palace was used as a secretariat by the british until 1867 .
the sidh peeth located on the banks of the river nyaar that is popularly known as the narad ganga is a popular temple and is dedicated to the deity ma bhuvneshwari .
visitors to the island must pay a conservation fee , and goods and services on the island tend to be relatively expensive .
papri is boiled sweet and salty beans that are cooked in a pot over a charcoal fire .
this park was created in 1812 for the prince regent , and the original plan was to create a private development with exclusive houses , but the full scheme was never completed .
alabama has warmth and sunshine for the greater part of the year while the spring arrives early , with the weather warming to the 60s fahrenheit daily by march .
for the change from kashmiri cuisine , try ladakhi food .
throughout most of its history , ancient greece was comprised of city-states which had limited power beyond their boundary .
these yoga exercises are recommended for the severely stressed out .
both these architectural marvels figure on the world heritage list .
the best place to stay in bandhavgarh national park is the taj group s wildnerness lodge , mahua kothi .
at taj mahal we meet with a beautiful admixture of lines , horizontal with vertical , and straight with curved all harmoniously set together in the total unity .
hoshang shah 's tomb is located in mandu , india .
arunachal pradesh is surrounded by bhutan on the west , china on the north - east , myanmar on the east and by the indian state of assam on the southern side .
375 km away from the state capital , mumbai , aurangabad sits in a strategic position on the deccan plateau .
their bright coloured and bold patterns may lead a layperson to believe that manipuri shawls are from maxico or peru .
completed in 1653 a . d . the taj mahal built by the mughal emperor shah jahan as the final resting place for his favorite queen , mumtaz .
locally known as tarakasi , silver filigree work is perhaps the most exquisite craft of orissa .
of the 14 over 8000 peaks on earth , 4 occupy an amphitheater at the head of baltoro glacier in the karakoram range and these are : k-2 ( 8611 m , world second highest ) , broad peak ( 8047m ) , gasherbrum i ( 8068m ) and gasherbrum ii ( 8035m ) .
tourists get the bird s eye view of the whole city from the top of the dome .
khon kaen is 445 kilometres from bangkok and has an area of about 10 , 886 square kilometres .
another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india is the amarnath shrine .
kalimpong is an important orchid-growing area and flowers are exported from here to various countries .
ancient chinese people displayed their very considerable skills in building the forbidden city .
in order to see namtok hin phoeng , 3-level waterfall , which drops from a height of 800 meters , visitors have to take a 400-meter walk along the mountainside after arriving at the lower basin .
according to mythology a young brahmin dived into the vembanad lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for land to rise from below , thus creating the enchanting island of pathiramanal ( sands of midnight .
the women go to great lengths to find that perfect .
wake up in the morning to the sound of gentle temple bells next door and take a short walk down the street to find yourself in the midst of a bustling bazaar that sells just about everything. you can also take a bus from here for pre-arranges visits to tourist circuit , if you are so inclined .
the buddha statue has been placed on the rock of gibraltar in the placid waters of the hussain sagar .
ooty is well connected by good roads .
preffered by locals tari is an essential ar all local festivals , however , a first , tari should be strictly sampled for its taste andnot drunk in copious quantities because of its strong , intoxicating nature .
chennai is now a upcoming business centre and one can find all kind of business around here. chennai is always known for its automobiles industries ( ex . ) hyundai , ford , tvs etc .
the region is also home to a number of species of snakes , tortoises and crocodiles , especially the snout nosed indian gharial .
nainital is situated in the kumaon hills where thick wooded hills , snow capped mountains in the distance and clear pine scented air were a respite from the hot steamy plains .
there is now ample opportunity to ascend mount erebus , the southernmost active volcano on earth ; to fly via helicopter or venture by boat to penguin colonies ; to really make the most of a terrain that teems with wildlife , with a multitude of birds , seals , albatrosses and enormous whales ; and so on .
a short distance from ellora is the grishneshwar temple , one of the five jyotirlingas ( self born lingams ) in maharashtra , and an important pilgrim centre for hindus .
the temple deity is known as kalika purana .
towards the end of the 18th century , laotians immigrated to the northern banks of the mun river and founded the provincial capital .
diu is also well connected by rail on western railway , and the nearest railhead is at vapi ( 10 km ) and a number of trains , including shatabdi and august kranti , halt here .
phuket is often dubbed as the pearl of the andaman , or the pearl of the south .
the beauty of thar desert is best described with the help of sam sand dunes , located at a distance of 42 km from jaisalmer .
so when you just want to get away from it all , come to amboli .
northwestern strongholds were turned over to the americans after jay 's treaty was signed in 1794 .
traditional udaipur garden of the maids of honour ' lies to the north of town .
south of bangalore in basavangudi , is the bull temple built by kempe gowda .
the mata murty temple located at the mana village in another temple that you must visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal , india .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska which have gentler rocks .
beyond is another tomb believed to contain the remains of khusraus sister .
until independence , the city was the seat of the maharajas of mysore , a princely state covering most of karnataka .
against the backdrop of the forested satpura hills in seoni district , is the pench jungle camp heaven for wildlife .
this is the place where you can fill your day , from dusk to dawn , with endless activities , or you may choose to do nothing at all and relax .
glenary s is extremely popular and usually crowded .
though mizo , like most north-eastern people , are a friendly lot , you may want to do the proper thing and request the youn mizo association to arrange a feast with a tribal family .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
the sanctuary has facilities for renting country boats for bird watching or picnics on one of the islands .
the sikkimese love to spice up their simple meals with piquant or hot pickles .
in haridwar , attractively restored haveli har ganga on the banks of the ganga combines old world charm with modern luxury .
khanqah of shah hamadan is located on the banks of the river jhelum .
kaskaskia became illinois first capitol in 1818. two years later the seat of illinois government was moved to vandalia .
the state has no shops or bars selling liquor .
although sea canoes are easy to handle and all safety equipment is provided , it is best to get instruction first .
a prime tourist destination of kerala , cochin is boasted for its extensively emerald backwaters lined with palm trees and local villages which represent the fascinating lifestyle of inhabitants who still used these course ways as their mode of transportation .
owned by the kanker royal family , royal bastar farm jagdalpur has quaint little cottages ( some made only of mud ) that are decorated with vivid tribal motifs .
the mahakala temple at ujjain in madhya pradesh , india is an interesting temple site that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
bartholomew the great which stands near the 1 , 000 year old st .
57 km from agartala , 25 km from neermahal , has several temples to lord vishnu , lakes and ruins of an old palace .
cascading waterfalls , the woods in the neighborhood and grassy slopes , all add up to the beauty of mussoorie as a must visit hill station in india .
among the most prominent colonial buildings within the campus is the muir college , now housing the science faculty , built in 1874 by sir william emerson .
it offers a large number of software jobs and gets many foreign contracts .
the shri satya sai baba ashram is the chief attraction at whitefield .
the community canteen is a sikh institution , which was started by guru amar das in the 16th century .
southern spices - here are real andhra food with all its fiery glory , served in a traditional setting complete with mud pillars and rangoli .
the discovery of oil and the sharp increase in world oil prices in the late and mid 70s should have transformed ecuador 's economic fortunes .
the minister of tourism , maria isabel salvador , has put as goal for the short and medium term to turn ecuador into one of the five best destinations of the american continent .
there 's more to amritsar than that amongst other sights is jallianwala bagh , site of the gruesome massacre of unarmed indians by british troops .
in no case a party shall advance money for the purchase of rations etc. to a l.o./m.g. instead , it shall depute a member to go to the market with a l.o./m.g. and purchase for him the identified items by making payment to the shopkeepers .
north of the museum is the 19th century allahabad university with its indo saracenic buildings .
ooty is one of the most popular tourist resorts in india .
many of these land grants , most of which are in northern new mexico , are owned today by the descendants of these early settlers .
visit the seashell museum , which has painstainkingly pieced togather by a former merchant navy captain , devjibhai fulbaria .
ephesus was later deserted , and only in the late nineteenth century has the site been excavated .
located approximately one and a half hours by plane from the northeast coastal cities of natal and recife , noronha is well worth the time it takes to arrive .
ahmedabad is also the main centre of the huge textile industry .
the islands of andaman and nicobar in the bay of bengal and lakshadweep in the indian ocean are virtually untouched and are some of the best spots for scuba diving and snorkeling .
while in the mountains it may be difficult for a l.o./m.g. to live on the party s food. if he so chooses he may have independent arrangements for food. in that case a party shall purchase for the l.o./m.g. such items of food and rations as he may indicate .
the wide of east java area is 47 , 921 sq km. two thirds of the area is mountainous with approximately 48 mountains .
there are opportunities for anglers in bhalukpung in assam .
the monumental labor of love of a great ruler for his beloved queen .
made of natural fibers ( coir , reeds etc . ) these mats , interwoven with light and dark colors , are both stylish and sturdy .
sunshine , orange state , everglades / alligator state , florida was named for the day on which it was discovered ( april 2 , 1513 ) by spanish explorer ponce de leon , who called it la florida in honor of pascua florida , the spanish feast of the flowers at eastertime .
the city of ahmedabad lies in the western indian state of gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state .
the great wall was originally built in the spring , autumn , and warring states periods as a defensive fortification by the three states : yan , zhao and qin .
the water is clear and beautiful , and the beaches at corbyn 's cove , wandoor , jolly boy and cinque offer an excellent sea for swimming .
around you are a dazzling array of churches - 39 anglican ( church of england ) and 7 other denominations .
taxis can be hired from amritsar for the visit .
the festivities commence with a spectacular procession inspired by mughal splendor .
butterfly park & insect kingdom with more than 3 , 000 species of buttefly and insect specimens , it is one of the world s largest collections .
save up all exchange receipts ( encashment certificates ) ; these are required for visa extensions and other formalities , and when you want to convert rupees at the end of your trip .
tribal dhokra metalwork makes for great gifts , especially the images of gods , animals figurines and human statuettes .
black hawk ( a native american tribe ) gave the united states the fertile mississippi river valley lands of eastern iowa in exchange for a small amount of cash , 40 barrels of salt , 40 barrels of tobacco and some blacksmithing services .
tourism potentials in maharashtra is simply unlimited .
the alaknanda & bhagirath are the main tributaries of the ganga and meet at devprayag , frothing from their racy descent .
koh lanta yai , this island is home to `` chao le `` or sea gypsies who continue to maintain their traditional lifestyle and beliefs , such as setting a boat a drift to drive out evil and bring good luck , which is practiced during the full moon in june and november .
seen from a distance , the baltoro appears smooth and beautiful but in fact it is a chaotic tumbling mass of rock and ice , troughs and hillocks and the debris of centuries .
camel safaris are only held in rajasthan in india with the key zones to reach out being , the traditional and historical townships of jaisalmer and bikaner .
otherwise try ye white hart , a large edwardian riverside pub perfect for spending a pleasant summer 's evening on the terrace caressing your pint while listening to the lapping of the thames and watching the rowers drift by ! nearest underground ( tube ) station : barnes or barnes bridge mainlines .
over 2 , 590 metric tonnes of high tensile steel make up this unique cantilever bridge that joins the main railway station ( for calcutta ) and the industrial city of howrah with the city of calcutta .
sauvestre proposed stonework pedestals to dress the legs , monumental arches to link the columns and the first level , large glass-walled halls on each level , a bulb-shaped design for the top and various other ornamental features to decorate the whole of the structure .
the proprietors of stall in budhwara has been whipping up these fantastic beef kebabs for over three decades , and while the taste just gets better , the prices haven t changed a bit just rs. 5 for a succulent plateful .
most suitable climbing season in karakoram being from the month of may till end of september each year .
singapore s changi airport was ranked by the magazine s readers as their favourite asian airport , while singapore airlines came out tops in the airline category .
junagarh fort turbaned men with proud moustaches and veiled beauties in colored attires and heavy jewellery , overwhelm with their cheerfulness .
hotels are booked to capacity during the pushkar fair and the urs , so make sure you have reservations done well ahead of time .
a good place to buy these fashionable yet ethnic shawls is the manipur handloom and handicrafts department corporation in paona bazaar , imphal .
major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops .
crafted from coconut shells , these pretty and delicate lampshades are unique to the andamans .
finished caves is one of the finest monasteries at ajanta .
jodhpur has its own airport which is connected to jaipur , delhi , udaipur , mumbai and some other major cities .
yet it was conceived , designed and built against considerable odds .
the maharawals ( rulers ) of jaisalmer were devout hindus but were tolerant of jainism , and encouraged art and religion .
the quality of goods varies , but you may well find a genuine bargain .
access to this paradise is from br-101 between the towns of trancoso and caraiva .
invest in orissa textile , as heirlooms for children and grandchildren .
new mexico is located in the southwest and is bordered by colorado ( north ) , oklahoma ( northeast ) , texas ( east ) , arizona ( west ) , utah ( northwest ) .
especially attractive are the unusual diwans , ornamented with vivid depictions of bastar life .
the quite hamlet of channapatana , also known as toy town , is the best place in the state to shop for lacquerware .
the provincial capital is a fishing port with a superb location beside beautiful curving bays and amongst steep mountain outcrops .
from 377 to 353 bc , king mausollos of caria reigned and moved his capital to halicarnassus .
hernando de soto may have visited eastern oklahoma , while juan de o ate later passed through western oklahoma , french traders from louisiana also visited oklahoma .
by the turn of the century , florida s population and per capita wealth were increasing rapidly ; the potential of the `` sunshine state `` appeared endless .
each cave has its own story to tell .
a centre of attraction during ganesh festival in august-september .
in the south-east corner is a small hindu shrine honoring laxmi , the goddess of wealth .
dotted with ancient monuments , exquisitely carved temples , unique buddhist sites , palaces , caves , rock paintings and plateaus , chhattisgarh has something for everyone - the nature lover , the lover of spiritualism .
between hua hin and prachuap khiri khan are pran buri with many boutique resorts and khao sam roi yot national park with soaring peaks , numerous caves and exotic bird life .
jakarta is one of indonesia 's designated tourist areas .
amboli 's bracing climate makes it a year round destination .
set up about 30 years ago to cater to hungry commuters using raipur s old bus stand , sahu jalebi bhandar soon became a landmark in town .
the raghunath temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord rama .
the harsh beauty of the diu fort , surrounded on three sides by jagged cliffs and a rock cut canals on the fourth , simply takes one s breath away .
with the highest motorable road at 18 , 300 ft across khardungla to nobra valley , this is a haven for thrill seekers .
once a residence for british officers , this imposing mansion at the foot of the rocky keshkal hills became the palace of the kanker royal family who still live here .
the inner and outer phra nang caves , and phra nang lagoon , which are located nearby offer remarkable views against a stunning backdrop and a range of accommodations to suit every budget .
there are daily flights from the four metros of delhi , calcutta , mumbai and chennai , as well as from cities like ahmedabad , puri , thiruvananthapuram , mangalore and goa .
ornamental jugs , betel and powder boxes , cutlery , crockery , candlesticks , knives. hookahs , flower vases and penholders are all embellished this way .
adjoining the pangi valley is lahaul valley where most of the people believe in buddhism .
the yoga taught at this school is mainly of the ashtanga tradition ; take the two week course for beginners , which includes accommodation and two meals a day , besides classes .
the buddhist stupas are the earliest architectural monuments that date back to 230-500 ad .
haji ali mosque is the tomb of a muslim saint who died while on pilgrimage to mecca .
famous ice cream - this 50 year old parlor is in an ill kept but charming colonnade , in the heart of a bustling fruit and vegetable market .
at the beginning of the 19th century there was a process of europeanization with the coming of the portuguese court to brazil as the result of the invasion of portugal by napoleon bonaparte 's troops .
the beautiful marvel tomb of sheikh salim chishti still attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint .
predominantly catholic and heavily influenced by the portuguese , there are many examples of a strong european cultural heritage like eastern procession held in larantuka , and the royal regalia of the former king in maumere .
this temple has a huge stone lingam that has been made of mercury .
the most scenic of these forts is the bekal fort , with a history stretching back to the 12th century .
however , it is also famous for the agra fort , which is a veritable treasure trove of the mughal architectural tradition .
arunachal pradesh was made a full fledged state on 20th february , 1987 .
fort jagmanpur , jalaun is four storied square fort sits at the confluence of five fivers , is hemmed by a moat on three sides and is replete with more than 100 big and small halls and a sweies of tehkhanas ( under ground rooms .
the northern pakistan has some of the longest glaciers outside polar region ; siachen ( 72 km ) , hispar ( 61 km . ) , biafo ( 60 km . ) , baltoro ( 60 km . ) , batura ( 64 km . ) , yenguta ( 35 km . ) , chiantar ( 34 km . ) , trich ( 29 km . ) and atrak ( 28 km .
much like the bengali murighonto , this one is fish s head cooked with rice , potatoes , onion , garlic and other spices .
it was during the time of first king of karkota dynasty , durlabvardhan that the orate chinese pilgrim , hien-tsang visited kashmir and entered the valley via varahmulla where he found a huge stone gate .
the menu at mangalore pearl offers a stunning choice , ranging from fish curried and fried to some superlative mussels and calm dishes .
you won t need to carry around a swiss army knife when you have one of these .
native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 230. hispanics , who may be of any race , were 1.2 percent of the population .
one can rent bicycles from the many cycle stalls on station road .
for the sturdy hearted , there is the delicately flavoured ox tounge and the jumping chicken ( something that , in more ways than one , croaked .
best known to the world for its bikaneri sweets & snacks , bikaner 's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in raajsthan 's economy .
following a forty-five day long survey of 101 sections of the wall in different provinces , the china great wall academy reported on december 12 , 2002 that the forces of nature and destruction at the hand of mankind are bringing about the gradual reduction of its extent with the result that less than 30 % remains in good condition .
the rohtang pass lies in the district of lahaul and spiti. due to its difficult terrain , not many tourists have ventured into this region .
even more bizarre is the hunterian museum in the royal college of surgeons .
the swaswara resort also has an ayurvedic centre and yoga and meditation facilities .
nishagandhi dance festival held in february each year , this festival pays tribute to indian classical dance .
the world famous savoy hotel is set back on a small street which has the curious accolade of being the only one in london where it is obligatory to drive on the right .
nagarhole national park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of mysore .
this is the region of some of nepal 's most remarkable wildlife , including the blue sheep , the serow and the snow leopard.peter matthieseu 's `` the snow leopard `` and snellgrove 's `` himalayan pilgrimage `` have contributed in revealing the mystery and attraction of dolpo .
it s a land of seafood lovers , thanks to a rich coastal cuisine. for small eaters , there are platters of mouthwatering snacks .
at zafraan laguna as you wait for the chefs to put your meal together relax to the beat of the lilting music in the background , study the impressive paintings on the wall or simply admire the impeccable table setting .
following a terrorist bomb in the 1980 's strict rules on baggage have been implemented .
fort william , victoria memorial , raj bhavan , palladian villas and the botanical gardens , the busy streets of shyambazar , college street and kalighat , bookshops , art galleries , coffee houses all are part of calcutta 's varied and vibrant shades , the birthplace of rabindranath tagore and cradle of the indian renaissance .
this magnificent yellow river flows quietly , like a shy girl in this section , irrigating the farmlands and nurturing the people .
the history of arunachal pradesh is a virtual treasure trove of myths and fascinating traditions , but the recorded history of this state is available only from the 16th century onwards , when the ahom kings began to rule assam .
some however , are still conservative , so to make sure you don t misstep , are sensitive to how the lady greets you and respond accordingly .
their ' government in exile ' has headquarters in dharamshala .
there is a bandstand , where bands play throughout the summer months .
another quick getaway in the forested hills is about 3 kms from almora .
don t miss a bargain with the dhurrie weavers , stone carvers and the chatty woman selling heavily embroidered banjara skirts and wall hangings .
visitors can contact tour operators , resorts and bungalows on ko lanta yai for an excursion to ko rok by speedboat .
decorated by professor gamble of the south kensington museum in london , the hall commemorated lord mayo and was built to host public meetings , receptions and balls .
in 1783 , spain regained control of the rest of florida as part of the peace treaty that ended the american revolution .
the us administration became infuriated and , in 2000 , the us clinton administration unveiled ' plan colombia ' , a massive military support programme for the colombian armed forces .
with support from tourists , local services and producers can compete with larger , foreign companies and local families can support themselves .
malam jabba boasts of two major treks amidst beautiful scenery , first track is winding through ghorband valley and shangla top is 18 km from the resort , it is a jeepable track overlooking the miandam settlement and reaches shangla top in 1-1/2 hours from where the adventure seekers can proceed to the karakoram highway , while the other major track leads to saboney valley , 17 km from the resort through thick pine forests and peach and apple orchards .
feast on lip-smacking snacks in roadside stalls , delectable konkan style seafood and mounds of modaks in maharashtra .
this ancient temple has been constructed atop an artificial hill and a flight of steps leads up to the main temple .
there are a group of temples dedicated to several hindu deities .
the kapaleeswarar temple is located in mylapore located in chennai , india .
halebid 's 12th century hoysaleswara and kedareswara temples are masterpieces of hindu art .
the jeep safari not only refreshes and revitalizes but one feels close to nature while driving through the quiet and beautiful countryside .
kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the durpin dara monastery .
narashimadeva , a ruler from the ganga dynasty constructed this temple .
set in beautiful wooded mountains kalimpong is a remote hill station about 80 kms from darjeeling is known for its beautiful orchids .
there is also a tourist information counter at the agra cantonment station .
this is an idyllic place to relax , unwind and go for long walks .
so , pack your lunch ( highway motels are best avoided ) and head for the pocaampalli handloom weaver s corporative society .
halda is celebrated in lahaul , and is something of a private welcoming of the new year .
it s also one of the best places to buy lacework crotchet , made by artisans of the west and east godavari districts .
during world war ii , u .s . citizens of japanese descent were rounded up and confined in internment camps .
the kakori kebab was created when the nawab of kakori was stung by a british officer s remark about the coarse texture of the seekh kebabs .
the lush river valleys surrounded by snow-caped peaks , the fruit-laden orchards , gurgling streams and dense forests that echo with birdsong , evoke enchantment and delight .
sankar varma , the king of kashmir exercised his influence over the regions of himachal pradesh in about 883 ad .
most appealing are the square baskets fashioned by the bansors ( basketeers ) , who paint colouful animal and human figures on the chequered surfaces .
sandwiched between many of the grand houses you can find charming cobbled mews containing smaller residences .
the river flanked by two forts on either sides , the candy - striped lighthouse of moti daman across , and the fishermen heading out to sea through the estuary nearby .
a city of love and warmth , sorrow and despair , dreams and hopes , poverty and squalor , grandeur and glory , calcutta is compelling , effervescent , teeming with life and traditions a medley of moods , styles , cultures , politics , industry and commerce .
between the ultra modern office buildings lies a diaspora of history from the great victorian and edwardian edifices of commerce such as the royal exchange to the roman temple of minerva on queen victoria street .
it is theorized that they are the remains of people who came and established a home at kanab nam , but were cut off by an inundation and quickly perished .
arunachal pradesh is the land of the dawn lit mountains is one of the most pristine areas in india .
special permits for mizoram foreign tourists require restricted area permit to enter this state , which can be obtained at ministry of home affairs , new delhi or indian foreign missions overseas .
india travel destinations reserves tours to nainital , which basks in the glory of its natural resplendence and grace .
nepal - a country of amazing extremes is the home of the world 's highest mountains , historic cities and the forested plains where the lordly tigers and the great one - horned rhinoceros trundle at ease .
in the 13th century , the city became a part of and , as some historians might claim , a center of the glorious srivijaya empire the kingdom that dominated the whole malay peninsula and much of java .
opened in 1991 , nicco park is the first amusement park of calcutta , 9 km from the city .
sir christopher wren designed this house , which overlooks st james 's park , in the early 18th century , as the london home of the duke of marlborough and his wife , sarah .
for years , tourists have mistaken chiang mai as the northern junction and the base from which they can explore other provinces .
the aurangabad caves are buddhist and are divided into two groups by the archaeological survey of india as the western and eastern caves .
this motorcycle safari travels through bikaner , the fortified town of jaisalmer , culminating in agra .
the history of florida during this period is one of territorial gain and loss until 1821 , when spain ceded florida to the united states of america .
about 28 kms from amritsar is the border station of atari and the check post between india and pakistan .
chnadigarh , the first modern and planned city of india , is unique in many ways .
there are 2 sailings in a month each from calcutta and madras to port blair & vice versa .
jaipur also serves as the most convenient entry point to rajasthan , india 's most colorful and vibrant state .
the entry of the railroad though southern idaho starting in the 1880s resulted in a number of african-americans settling in pocatello .
for a list of treks in open and restricted zones , and to have a copy of latest trekking rules & regulations , please write to the public relation officer , ministry of tourism , government of pakistan ( operation section ) 9th floor , green trust towers , blue area , jinnah avenue , islamabad .
accolades won by singapore in the conventions industry include top convention city in asia and the third top convention city in the world by international congress and convention association in may 2005 .
france ceded lands including present kansas to spain in the treaty of paris of 1763 , which ended the french and indian wars.t .
no honeymoon in ladakh can be complete without partaking of the hemis festival , which is an annual celebration of the dugpa order which gives a religious tenor to the honeymooners in india once they visit ladakh .
the ruins of the splendid temple of martand which the king had constructed near the ' tirtha ' of the same name are still the most striking object of ancient hindu architecture in the valley .
motichoor laddoos at ram ashraya or ritz give the most delicious belgian chocolates a run their money .
the mountain views are amazing from durpin dara hill .
this temple is regarded as one of the main shakti shrines in india .
there , he sculpted and carved the different pieces of the statue before they were assembled in the temple .
among the dead were black kettle and his wife. the massacre is remembered as the battle of the washita , commemorated by washita battlefield national historic site .
these are temples of significance to the jain pilgrims .
india travel destinations organizes for tours to places of adventure tourism in india , which is tourism with a difference and a bit high on the adrenaline and heartbeats .
families are welcoming and friendly , and there is no better way to see nagaland than through their eyes .
new mexico became the 47th state to unite under america on january 6 , 1912 .
after a serious fire damaged windsor castle in 1993 the queen allowed the palace state rooms to be opened to the public for the first time , to help pay the windsor castle repair bill .
there 's a prehistoric animal section , a toy train ride around the park , a lion safari and a nocturnal section .
banking in india has become quite easy now .
it was to be designed like a large pylon with four columns of lattice work girders , separated at the base and coming together at the top , and joined to each other by more metal girders at regular intervals .
in time , the federation of motor sports clubs of india ( fmsci ) became the governing body of this sport .
highly recommended for those who don t mind roughing it a bit .
economy handicrafts products like woolen blankets shawls and sweaters are the main items manufactured in amritsar .
nong khai consists of the following districts : mueang nong khai , bueng kan , phon phisai , tha bo , sangkhom , seka , so phisai , si chiang mai , phon charoen , pak khat , bueng khong long , si wilai , bung khla , sa khrai , rattana wapi , fao rai and pho tak .
the present city of allahabad was founded by the mughal emperor akbar in 1575 a . d . realizing its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north india , akbar built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy 'sangam ' .
versed in many languages , a good poet , lover of music and art , he started his rule in a remarkable way , and became famous in northern india .
by train ajmer lies on the main western railways grid and so is well serviced by a number of regular trains that connect it to the important cities in the region .
brajbhoomi - the land where lord krishna was born and spent his youth .
ko lanta consists of two adjacent islands : ko lanta yai and ko lanta noi .
kannur is a seat of north malabar 's ancient folk art , theyyam .
the site india travel destinations offers you relevant information regarding temple tours to madhya pradesh in india .
kansas is located in the east-central great plains and is bordered by nebraska on the north , missouri ( east ) , oklahoma ( south ) , and colorado ( west ) .
his outstanding career as a constructor was marked by work on the porto viaduct over the river douro in 1876 , the garabit viaduct in 1884 , pest railway station in hungary , the dome of the nice observatory , and the ingenious structure of the statue of liberty .
phuket s natural resources - rocky peninsular , limestone cliffs , white powdery beaches , tranquil broad bays and tropical in-land forests contribute to making it the south 's wealthiest , busiest , most visited and most popular island and province .
east java 's economy is based on agriculture , fishery , oil industries , coffee , mangoes and apples .
shimla became the summer capital of india and even today , many old houses and buildings tell the story of english grandeur .
when the empire hit the bottom , surat thani was divided into 3 main cities namely chaiya , tha thong and khiri rat .
vancouver named puget sound after the officer who first sighted it , peter puget .
one can also drive from drive in from delhi , either by a rented car or one 's own .
there is an intricate web of waterways in kerala , where the sea playfully teases the shore .
indian and colonial influences are apparent in lobby lounge , the oberoi cecil soaring five-storey atrium , with its polished wooden floor and rich silk upholstery .
the brindabanchandra temple is located at guptipara that is very close to kolkata , india .
yak rides are also on the offer for the celebrating couples .
ajmer has multiple super fasts , express and mail trains to delhi , mumbai , jaipur , ahmedabad and jodhpur .
today , alappuzha has grown in importance as a backwater tourist centre , attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year .
for water enthusiasts , arkansas has more than 9 , 700 miles of streams and 600 , 000 acres of lakes .
in defiance of this order , a group of men , women and children gathered in a rectangular piece of land , called jallianwala bagh , to mark the anniversary of the birth of the khalsa panth ( order of the khalsa .
do not carry large amounts of cash with you ; credit cards are accepted in most stores these days and are safer to carry .
zamin doz machhli is ancient of cooking fish involves stuffing a whole fish with spices , sealing it in an earthenware case , burying it in the ground and cooking it by lighting cow dung cakes above .
andhra pradesh is the home of rich cultural heritage and handicrafts .
sisodiya rani-ka-bagh was built by sawai jai singh ii for his sisodiya queen .
once an administrative and cultural center , khorat 's role today remains unchanged as it is currently the main transportation , industrial and economic hub of the northeast .
another tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to varanasi in uttar pradesh , india is the durga temple .
the bar is well - stocked and the restaurant is risottos , ratatouille , bruschetta etc . ) with a smattering of oriental cuisine .
when salim , the younger son of akbar took over , arjan dev was asked to convert to islam as penance for his favors .
it is said that the great hindustani classical musician mian tansen once sang raag deepak ( song of fire ) here and with the intensity of his music set the place alight .
the north west company and the hudson 's bay company established trading posts in the red river valley at an early date .
world war ii brought about an interruption in the contact of brazilian artists with the international art world , even though many foreign artists lived in brazil .
the sudh mahadev temple in kashmir , india is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to kashmir , india .
alberuni , who accompanied mahmud gaznavi in his indian campaigns , specifically mentions in his book ( tahqiq-i-hind ) that kashmiris observed second of chaitra , as the day of victory .
situated opposite the city market , the fort is noted for its beautifully carved islamic-style arches on the gate walls , and for the well-preserved ganesha temple within its precincts .
a traditional chhattisgarhi breakfast staple is bafuri .
the greatest attraction of the state is its dazzling array of flora and fauna , in a habitat that combines glacial terrain , alpine meadows , and sub-tropical rain forests .
playing host to a mixture of theatres , hotels , shops and charing cross railway station the strand is invariably thronged with people and vehicles .
laguna is definitelyfor the a - listers and those with a cool high quotient. we want to make this restaurant the very best in every sense , promises khaitan .
the shops around the krishnaraja circle in mysore are your beat betswhile others include karnataka state art and crafts emporium and all india crafts emporium .
murud is today popular for its alluring beach , whispering casuarinas , coconut and betel palms , and an ancient fort .
the largest numbers of orissa s tribals are associated with brass and metal work , you can take your pick from utensils fashioned out of bell metal and , of cours , godly figurines .
tea room and main hall are places for serving guests , and the furnishings in here are all very elegant .
city palace is a magnificent structure , the palace occupies one seventh of the walled city of jaipur and is a wonderful blend of rajput and mughal architecture .
cochise also developed a hatred of americans after they killed members of his family. cochise , geronimo , and mangas coloradas became three of the most famous indian warriors .
geographically , bengkulu is located between 2o and 5o south latitude and between 101o and 104o easternlongitude , thisprovinceisborderedby : eastside : jambiprovincewest side : indian ocean south side : lampung province and indian ocean north side : west sumatra province .
dotted with unexplored beaches and charming seaside resorts , one would never guess that it is merely a few hours from big noisy cities such as mumbai , and only a hop away from major town of gujarat like the newly commercial surat .
you can enjoy terra-cotta ware , traditional rajasthani musical instruments , and a miniature of the royal bikaner train , antique carpets and royal vestments in the ganga golden jubilee museum .
the scenic countryside of kuttanad with its shimmering waterways also has a rich crop of banana , cassava and yam ; this is perhaps the only region in the world where farming is done 1. 5 to 2 m below sea level .
also immensely popular is chhurpi , a fermented , dried cheese prepared from cow or yak milk .
with the mix of people in bangalore , it is common to see christmas and ramzan celebrated with equal vigour .
temperature its humidity is 87 % and the rainfall ranges 3 , 598 mm per year. the temperature of this area ranges between 22.2o c and 31.1o c .
langtang valley stretches north of gosainkunda the trek passes through a varied landscape ranging from evergreen forests , cascading waterfalls and turbulent streams to sub-alpine grasslands and stark , beautiful mountainsides .
built in 1901 , the architecture is an interesting mix of mughal and european influences .
the temple is the biggest in the city and is dedicated to lord shiva .
the sabarmati neatly bifurcates the city into two the old quarter on the eastern side with the business and industrial centre and the new city with more contemporary landscape of malls and arcades , high-rise buildings and cinema houses .
large number of immigrants came to minnesota beginning in the 1830s to work in lumbering and farming .
swaraj bhawan was used as headquarters of the congress party .
there is ladakh , with a distinct culture and topography .
some of the historical monuments located in the region are the buddhist viharas , a burmese vihara , some temples and a tibetan gompa that is dedicated to sakhyamuni .
young children are taken to the temples and are introduced to the letters of the alphabet in front of saraswati , the goddess of wisdom and learning .
one of the thailand 's finest khmer ruins can be seen here next to mon and lao sites .
suburban areas and towns not far from the large cities were the fastest growing parts of the state .
chandani chowk , karol bagh , rajouri garden and south extension are the best markets for diamond and gold jewellery. designer lehangas , saris and other wedding paraphernalia .
janpath remains one of delhi s most colourful markets and attracts everyone from students to housewives to passing tourists .
mahatma gandhis call for a mass movement against imperialist rule was launched as the quit india movement from allahabad in 1920 .
the name , kalimpong , has three different origins , one , it means the place where the local tribesmen gathered to organize field sports , second , it takes it s name from the bhutanese king s minister s stronghold and thirdly , it is named after kaulim , a fibrous plant found in abundance in this region .
one of the best havelis of jaisalmer , amar sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers .
even today , the walls of the jallianwala bagh bear the bullet holes where people were mercilessly butchered .
hazaribagh means a thousands gardens and it is a famous health hill resort situated on a height of 2 , 019ft. above sea level .
the attractions on mu ko hong islands include fine beaches , shallow and deep-water coral reefs and various kinds of fish while popular activities include snorkeling , scuba diving , fishing , sea-canoeing and nature studies on the 400-meter hiking trail around ko hong .
khorat used to be the site of several ancient prehistoric communities .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to shimla within the status of a favorite and much sought after honeymoon destination in india for the prospective honeymooners in india as planning in advance saves a lot of time and financial resources .
portinari captured in his canvases the way of life of ordinary people , conveying their joys and sufferings in a dramatic way .
the buddhist ruins are located on the contiguous hills locally known as bojjanakonda and lingalametta consist of numerous monolithic stupas , caves and structural buildings .
ajanta finished caves is a representation of the miracle of shravasti when the buddha manifested himself in thousand forms .
look no further than the heritage houses that now serves as renowned hotels , the ethic restaurants french , italian and best of all , goan that draws celebrities from all over the country and of course , the marvelous antique shops and designer boutiques that can give the best of the metros a run for their money .
puppet shows are a big attraction too .
agra is also famous for its gajak , a crumbly sweet made with sesame and jaggery .
shortly after the death of alexander the great , his commander ptolemy soter assumed power in egypt .
lakshminarayan temple , a modern hindu temple , built in 1938 , is dedicated to lord vishnu and his consort laxmi .
beyond namche bazaar is the sherpa village of khumjung and further on the famous monastery of thyangboche .
you don t have to be an angler to enjoy the scenic woody stretch along the mighty cauvery , on which the jungle lodge is located , but if you are , you ll be doubly delighted .
nearly three-fifths of the state 's black population lives within the city boundaries of kansas city or st. louis .
it was during this time , that the valley rose to great heights in the realm of philosophy , artand letters .
the theme which resonates frequently in the khajuraho sculpture and murals are various positions of lovemaking and romantic interludes being portrayed in the depicted postures in khajuraho , a much sought after honeymoon destination in india for the utility of honeymooners in india .
ajanta has been designated as a world heritage site , to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will come to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come .
one of the most amazing lights that you will come across in the depths of the forests are long cocoons hung from trees branches to dry .
india travel destinations arranges tours to lakkidi , which is also recognized for its cultural vitality and verve .
the rich and fertile plains of the region support an enormous population of over 30 million people .
the mind boggling variety in the menu might confuse the gourmands .
on the coastal side , amboli peers over the tree lined sandy ribbon of the konkan coast ; on the other three sides , you are rewarded by a magnificent panorama of the sweeping valley .
it is a popular belief that this deity grants all your wishes .
while the resident of central sulawesi province who resided in settlement area of hinterland is 30 % coastal area is 60 % and archipelago area is 10 .
the island excel in the making of trinkets , earrings and necklaces from shell , pearls and even reeds .
selected villages along the markha and sham trekking routs offer a comfortable ladakhi style room , traditional food , and the opportunity to live the ladakhi way .
in 1758 the province of georgia was divided into eight parishes , with four new parishes added in 1765 .
to reach the higher parts , an earth ramp was built around the statue and was later removed .
visit this unassuming place known as patio , for the most delectable seafood dishes .
the lagoons gently brush past villages and overhanging grass , and throw back the palms reflection off their blue-green-blue surface .
after territorial status was granted , the two floridas were merged into one entity with a new capital city in tallahassee .
if any assistance from the pakistan army is needed , the l. o. / m . g. shall so inform the deputy commissioner who shall arrange such assistance .
many of the new residents were lured by favorable spanish terms for acquiring property , called land grants .
alabama today remains largely a black-and-white state , with 71 percent of residents identifying themselves as white only and 26 percent as black only .
lawmusiang in jowai , meanwhile , is the largest jaintia market , is undoubtedly the best place to buy spices in meghalaya .
sangam offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset .
raffles culinary academy is located at raffles hotel , 1 beach road .
nearest underground stop : hampstead .
two separate routes head northeastwards from taplejung , one to the north base camp , the other to the south base camp. these routes can be combined into a circuit .
he then opened fire on the gathering without any warning , killing and wounding thousands .
the 30 rock hewn caves are adorned with buddhist sculpture and the frescoes portray in epic form the religious and secular life through eight centuries .
this has been made possible by improved equipment and transportation , and the availability of year round bookings in areas , hitherto , considered inaccessible .
the gorgeous and always popular silk sari from kanchipuram is usually at the top of just about anyone s shopping list , when they are in tamil nadu .
the government sandalwood oil factory and krisnaraja circl , at the heart of the city are two best places to find sandalwood products in mysore .
himachal pradesh was made a centrally administered territory in 1948 with the integration of 31 hill states and obtained additional regions in 1966 .
sino-portuguese architecture casts its spell delighting travelers to the city , while phuket-style hospitality has never failed to impress visitors from all walks of life .
above the mall is the main temple complex with shrines dedicated to and lord shiva .
picturesque vintage car rallies are also held in some of the metros like kolkata 's annual statesman vintage car rally .
it only took five months to build the foundations and twenty-one to finish assembling the metal pieces of the tower .
ensconced in them are tussar silk caterpillars , which are fed on saja and arjuna trees and then taken to the kosa silk farm in jagdalpur .
everyone heads north from there , entering the park after about a day and reaching the lake after two days .
the people in the bangalore city are warm , hospitable and friendly .
the city of agra is world famous for the taj mahal , built by the mughal emperor shahjahan in memory of his beloved wife .
for a unique slice of nature , spend few days here at bheemeshwari jungle lodge .
the construction of taj mahal marble masterpiece is credited to the mughal emperor shah jahan who erected this mausoleum in memory of his beloved wife , arjumand bano begum , popularly known as mumtaz mahal , who died in ah 1040 ( ad 1630 .
pick from a variety of intricately designed traditional mizo hats and shawls here .
crawford market used to be the city 's wholesale produce market before it was strategically moved to new bombay .
car with drivers can be rented from car rental companies , or through travel agents and hotels .
you won t have to rough it out-all facilities have been incorporated into an authentic setting .
the resort also offers an ayurvedic massage centre and a souvenir shop .
the hariharnath temple located in sonepur in bihar , india is an important tourist destination that you must visit during your temple tours to bihar in india .
various bamboo items are also a good buy from luangmual handicrafts centre .
the master baker s place is where everyone heads for tea or coffee and pastries all day .
it was believed to have been built with machinery instruments for observing the movement of stars and planet .
metal structures soon began to find their way into textile factories , into stage construction and glasshouses .
the sub regions of the karakoram are baltoro , soltoro , hispar , lupghar , khunjerab , panmah , aghilm , masherbrum , saser , siachen , rimo , batura , rakaposhi / bogrot and haramosh .
fateh prakash palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture .
on offer is an amazing range of contemporarily styled handicrafts-sleeker and definitely more innovative than anything you ll see in the state emporia .
zhouzhuang is surrounded and divided by lakes and rivers , 14 stone bridges cross the rivers , showing distinctive views of the water-town .
another highlight is ' the spirit of london ' - exhibition which covers a period of more than 400 years and spans london 's history from elizabethan times to the present day , capturing the essence of london 's pomp and circumstance .
the prices here will be at least 25 percent less than what the fancy emporia in vijaywada and hyderabad charge .
by the end of the century , carlos gomes ( 1836-1896 ) , born in the town of campinas in the state of sao paulo , produced a number of operas in the prevailing italian style , especially il guarany , an opera based on a famous brazilian novel by jose de alencar about a colonial villain who incites an indian attack in order to gain a portuguese nobleman 's treasure and his daughter as a bride .
located at 1555 m above sea level is beyond lava and one can have magnificent view of the summit of kanchenjunga from the village of kaffer .
more accurate reconstructions may give us an idea about the general layout of the temple .
there is an interesting at the sabarmati ashram every evening .
one company , the virginia company of london , dispatched a fleet of three ships , the susan constant , the goodspeed , and the discovery , under the command of captain christopher newport .
this variety is reflected in the food , architecture , music and culture of brazil .
the tourist has a vast expanse of meadows and grassy knolls to look forward to in this enchanting hill station in india , himachal pradesh .
cross the damanganga and you will arrive at the historical moti daman fort , an atmospheric walled area with lots of old , lovely buildings in and around the fortification .
hazrat miran syed husian asghar khangswar 's dargah is located on the highest point of the taragarh fort .
palate sensations is located at 1 westbourne road , # 03-05 ( entrance via whitchurch road , off portsdown road and opposite col bar .
a few pieces of sculpture include an image of brahma ( 12th century .
chennai , as a key honeymoon destination in india is home to several attractive honeymoon hotels in chennai , which can delight honeymooners in india , no bounds .
by 1900 , the combined total of scandinavians from norway , sweden , and denmark outnumbered those from any single county .
the building is illuminated on sunday evenings .
qutab minar since those early days many dynasties and rulers flourished on its regal soil .
no visit to the state capital shimla is complete without visiting jakhu hill .
the usual season is late december to early march , depending on the snow conditions .
native kentuckians include the mingo ( seneca-iroquois ) , the cherokee , and the shawnee .
the nature and atmosphere of these places is summed up by the story of a recent visitor who was walking through the gas lit courtyards on a dark winter 's night when out of the mist came a gaggle of elderly judges in their full bottomed wigs .
when the two leaders met face to face , nai klom was awed by phraya tak 's dignified manner and his army 's strict discipline , thereby surrendering without a fight .
chiang mai , with an altitude of approximately 310 meters above sea level , is situated approximately 700 kilometers from bangkok on the mae ping river basin .
nestled amongst the dense rishikesh badrinath highway at an altitude of 380 mts . , here the mighty water of ganga is ideal for white water rafting there is also ample opportunity to view wildlife in its natural habitat .
it has long been believed that the colossus stood in front of the mandraki harbor , one of many in the city of rhodes , straddling its entrance .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
jag mandir is an island palace located in pichola lake , constructed by maharana karan singh for the hideout of prince hurram .
with mountains to the east and deserts to the south , california has the best of all worlds. you can snow ski in mountains then drive less then two hours and be in soaring high temperatures all in the same day .
another great favourite in varanasi is the chaat in chaat gali , a street of vendors selling the spiciest , most lip smacking chaat in the state .
dating back to the 9th centuries when it was known as deogiri , the fort has a chequered history , having been under the control of the yadavas , delhi sultans , mughals and finally the marathas .
mandi is situated on the left bank of the river beas at an altitude of 800 m. above the sea level .
soon afterwards , in 1828 , the country declared war on peru , whose armies had invaded gran colombia .
allahabad is also known for its annual magh mela ( mini kumbh mela ) and colorful dussehra festival .
its ornate decor , arched corridors and green lawns , z hotel is full of old world charm , and famous for its personalized service and superb food .
kaen nakhon lake in the centre of town is a popular spot for picnics and dining , while wat that on its bank features typical isan spires .
the first united states citizens to visit present iowa were members of the lewis and clark expedition , which transited the area en route to the pacific ocean shortly after the louisiana purchase .
among the finest examples of some of the earliest buddhist architecture , caves paintings and sculptures , these caves comprise chaitya halls , or shrines , dedicated to lord buddha and viharas , or monasteries , used by buddhist monks for meditation and the study of buddhist teachings .
a minicoal mine is the main attraction .
the flight from kathmandu to jumla passes south along the dhaulagiri range and provides lovely views of nepal 's western landscape .
`` beautiful indonesia in miniature park `` popularly called tmii `` taman mini indonesia indah `` , built to portray the variety of cultures found within the many islands contained in the republic of indonesia , this open-air museum comprises the many architectural forms of arts and traditions of all indonesia provinces .
devotees come for ritual bathing in the holy waters at the sangam and priests or pandas perform special rites of worship to help them in their quest for salvation .
although visited by pilgrims throughout the year , this sacred ramkot place attracts devotees from all over india and abroad , on ` ram navami , the day of lord s birth , which is celebrated with great pomp and show , in the hindu month of chaitra ( march-april ) .
phuket borders on phang-nga province to the north and the other 3 sides are encircled by the andaman sea the place where many of the best diving sites are located .
the other worthwhile products are cane and bamboo furniture , woodcarvings and decorative handicrafts like lampshades , toys and tribal jewelry .
in the normal course of events , all hotels in exotic locales are a big draw for people but honeymoon hotels in chennai belong to a different class altogether .
though the temple was rebuilt and is now back to its original glory , the scars in the minds of the sikh people remained .
the kapasi handicrafts emporium was opened in 1973 at ashram road and has now somthing of a household name ahemdabad .
and if that s not enough to satisfy the adventure in you , head to the historical ellora caves .
ajanta caves are 106 kms from aurangabad and date back to the 2nd century bc .
in the middle lie reasonably priced hotels , clean albeit simple rooms with or without air conditioning but thankfully with attached bathrooms .
areas of london still bear the names of the gates in the wall , the main ones being aldgate , cripplegate , bishopsgate , newgate and ludgate .
the magh mela is the annual version of the kumbh and ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from makar sankranti in jan.and ends at maha shivratri in feb .
there are a total of 275 falls , forming a gigantic semi-circle 8 , 100 feet long , with millions of gallons of thundering water plunging to depths 250 feet below .
writes stein : it is no longer possible to trace with certainty , the cities , and remains of all the towns and structures which owed their existence to lalitaditya .
in the post independence period , the town once again saw a spate of bloody warfare , now between the indian administration and sikh militant groups .
portuguese built the fort and walled the town of diu against invasions , and during their reign , turned the island into a leading ship building centre .
polo facilities are on the rise and polo holidays in india too are in vogue .
amanat khan shirazi was the calligrapher of taj mahal , his name occurs at the end of an inscription on one of the gates of the taj .
there s a two screen multiplex for movie buffs , a children s play area to keep the little ones entertained and a huge food court with a wide variety of cuisines to suit all tastes and budgets .
water skiing is another addition to the whole structure of skiing in india but it is also very much a part of the whole calendar of skiing in india .
held in the second week of november , over three eventful days , the chandigarh carnival annual event has become a favourite with locals and tourists alike .
the garhwal mandal vikas nigam has a full fledged mountaineering and trekking division , based at munikireti , rishikesh for information about peak booking fees , inner line restrictions , import of equipment , camera permits , insurance , medical attention , and evacuation procedures , contact the indian mountaineering foundation based at delhi .
in 1560 almora was made the capital of the chand rulers .
still further north , the karakoram and hindu kush ranges shape the western extension of the himalayas .
bengkulu province is divided among 1 municipality and 3 districts , with bengkulu as its capital city .
the pawan dham temple is known for the elaborately decorated idols and is a must visit during your temple tours to haridwar in uttaranchal in india .
the central , eastern and western plains have tropical dry deciduous forests , while the southwestern plateau has tropical thorny forests .
the baqerkhani , comparable to a puff pastry , is sure to make any breakfast a special affair .
designed to look like a grand portugues villa , and set in lush green lawns , hotel kohinoor is a one of the plushets of that diu has to offer .
osage indians settled in the rich woodlands of northeastern oklahoma around 1796 .
priests at the local temples channel the voice of the gods to gathered villagers and answer questions about the future and offer solutions to problems .
sirmaur , triangle of 3 important tourist places namely nahan , renuka and paonta sahib , have attracted many tourists all round the year .
agra is a big exporter of leather and leather products to the west and you get to pick up some real bargains here .
respected by the indians , york today is credited as being of great value to the success of the trip .
the restaurant uses an authentic indigenous style of cooking and makes mouth watering tawa , kadai , degchi , and legan curries .
the meghalayans hand-weave very light shawls in pastel colours with dark or bright checks .
the palace is only open to the public during the summer months , while the queen is staying at balmoral , her scottish castle .
voting ran from may through september 2005 with a record-breaking number of more than two million ballots cast online .
the pristine beaches are also the hub of the water sports such as scuba diving and snorkelling .
of course , what really made some one love the place was that the hotel sao tome retiro , affectionately known as georgie s offers accommodation in part of cathedral .
the nearest airport is lilabari in assam , 57 km from naharlagun and 67 km from itanagar .
though madras is predominantly populated by hindus , it has several fine monuments and places of worship connected to the christian faith .
resounding with foot tappings and mridangam beats , it s a must visit for every arts lover .
a network of plank reinforced roads plying north to south 1600 meters ( 5 , 249 feet ) long lead to the cave openings , which are stacked five stories high some reaching up to 50 meters ( 164 feet ) . by the way , mogao means high up in the desert .
gateway of india , this 26 meters high stone archway is the first landmark of mumbai a visitor sees when arriving by ship .
despite being a hazard to ships hin daeng submerged open water reef on the outer edge of the andaman sea is a superb diving spot featuring diverse colorful corals .
on january 11 , 1861 the alabama secession convention passes an ordinance of secession , declaring alabama a `` sovereign and independent state .
this three storeyed shop ( between of other shops with same name ) has one of the finest collections of sculptures in hyderabad .
the whole northern pakistan has come to be known as a paradise for mountaineers , climbers , trekkers , hikers and anglers of the most famous trout fish .
come to the banyan tree to sample excellent thai cuisine , made with fresh catch of the day .
it is recommended that one should take a break from sun and sand and , instead , take a walk back in time at nani daman , or little daman , which is home to the gigantic fort of st. jarome .
ooty is connected to mettupalayam , through railway , which is then , directly connected to coimbatore and chennai .
not many tourists take the time to discover the treasures of andhra pradesh , daunted by its size and the fact that the major attractions are spread across squares of miles of tough terrain .
whenever any newcomer to the capital city even mentions the world shopping , he is invariably pointed towards dilli haat .
in front of this hall is a courtyard with a pachisi court ( a game like ludo played with dice ) where the emperor played using slave girls as live pieces .
located in picturesque ( and pedestrianised ) matheran , surrounded by hills and lush greenery , verandah in the forest is an exclusive and elegant place to stay , a 19th century grand colonial house in the middle of a thick forest .
the dance is usually performed on specially put up stages in connected with temple festivals .
in his left hand , he holds a scepter inlaid with every kind of metal , with an eagle perched on the scepter .
from the city agra , there are taxis , tempos , auto rickshaws , and cycle rickshaws to carry one to the agra fort .
kailashnatha temple is carved out of a single rock and that too with bare hands .
all official transactions and meetings are held in gandhinagar , the administrative capital while ahmedabad and surat are two important trading centers .
central sulawesi province being formed with the constitution number 13 in 1964 laying between 2022 ' north latitude and 3048 'south latitude and 119022 ' east longitudes .
from the 16th century , roman catholic churches and convents in brazil were decorated in the european style , often by brazilian craftsmen who had been trained in european methods .
the leader of party using treks in restricted area shall , on arrival in rawalpindi/islamabad , inform the officer concerned in tourism division of their arrival .
southern spices d menu gives fair representation to all the regional flavors of andhra cuisine .
dolpo trek on its own takes one to two weeks , assuming you fly there in and out of dunai .
the kangra valley is one of the most picturesque valleys of lower himalyas .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
classes are designed to make cooking easy and fun for novice as well as advanced chefs , so students of any culinary ability are welcome .
it was his chief queen kota rani , who practically governed the state .
in the city of bodrum ( f . k . a . halicarnassus ) on the aegean sea , in south-west turkey .
read by buyers of meetings and events , corporate associations , government bodies and those involved in the planning of business events , the quorum magazine has a distribution of 11 , 586 per issue , of which 1 , 900 copies are distributed to asia , middle east , nz and the south pacific .
most of the factories in khorat , are rice mills , tapioca product manufacturers , and industrial factories .
mount harriet : birds , butterflies and an eyeful of open space that perhaps does more justice to the highest peak in the south andamans than its claim of being the summer headquarters of the chief commissioner of the raj .
among its much architectural game are the places for his queens jodha bai , mariyam and his turkish sultana , built in varying styles , each perfect in it .
the temple of naina devi is situated on the top of a triangular hill commanding and unparalleled view of the holy anandpur sahib gurudwara on one side and gobindsagar on other .
parasailing is a sport , which is a combination of skydiving and paragliding both being high on adrenaline sports , rolled into one. recently , parasailing has been initiated in rajasthan , too .
the town has everything from the very basic in tourist accommodation ( rs.100 single rooms ) to the one luxury hotel ( prices in the range of rs 1500 2000 .
it is worth going the distance because mon is home to the best artisans among nagas-the konyak nagas .
of particular mention is the bull 's head where you can listen to live jazz ( including some world class acts ) every single day of the week .
rajasthan so commonly characterized as the land of chivalry and bravery , is also home to the largest desert of india , the thar desert .
the structure of taj mahal adheres to the islamic style ( mughal style ) of architecture , which flourished in india during the medieval period .
the entrance of satmaliya dapada sanctuary falls on the silvassa khanvel road , but once inside one can found himself enjoying a drive on a jungle trail through mixed forests and teak plantations .
average temperatures of phuket ranges between 23 c and 33 c .
the total height of the mausoleum was 45 m ( 140 ft .
kalindikhal trek starts at nandanvan , and ends at badrinath .
besides the dilwara temples there is the eklingji temple in udaipur in rajasthan , india that you must visit during your temple tours to rajasthan , india .
located just above the beginner ski slopes in a beflowered meadow , overlooked by beautiful hills , its views of the gulmarg valley are calendar worthy .
ahmedabad is famous for cotton textiles and traditional jewellery .
the most meager that your budget should get is us $ 25 per day of your stay on this amount , you ll struggle with dormitory accommodation , look for cheap grub , and constantly try to figure out bus routes and timings but you will just about survive .
desert is no ordinary affair either : singhara ( water chestnuts ) are crushed and used to make a rather herbal-tasting halwa .
this beach is comparatively quieter and an ideal place to go sea bathing. it is located near besant nagar .
the highest elevation is the panhandle in southwestern kimball at 5 , 424 feet. the lowest elevation is the missouri river at 840 feet .
boating and fishing facilities are available at kumarakom .
a remarkable structure , this is a masterpiece of indo islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the ajmer city .
make sure to mingle with the townspeople once you have retired to the bars and restaurants for a taste of savory sun-dried meats and axe music , as the stories you will learn are sure to add yet another element of enchantment to the region .
the chances are that you will lose track of time in this quiet retreat with its rejuvenating climate and charming mountain scenery .
the unique trait of the fuan is the consummate combination of the single-arch bridge and the bridge towers which have , are used as tearooms , restaurants and stores , and are good places to appreciate the views while taking a rest .
the annual flower , fruit and vegetable shows are regularly held here .
the plus hotel , with its manicured lawn , elegant rooms , wooden floors , thangka scrolls and striking dragon-motif decorations does justice to its illustrious past .
the old city spreads along the eastern banks of the river yamuna .
one such temple is located at sangura in bilkhet in uttaranchal in india .
the ashrafi mahal is another interesting historic site that was a theological college .
praversein ruled ably for 60 years and is supposed to have directly ascended to heaven while worshipping lord shiva in his temple ' pravesha ' now standing in ruins near hari-parbat fort .
in 2000 whites comprised the largest share of the population , representing 92.4 percent of the people .
the indian rupee is available in denominations of rs 1 , rs 2 , rs 5 , rs 10 , rs 20 , rs 50 , rs 100 and rs 500 .
irulas and mudugars are the main tribes inhabiting the waynad region which houses the rain soaked lakkidi as a famous hill station in india .
relations between the races have tended to shape mississippi 's history and to foster a conservative political philosophy and an insistence on state 's rights among its white majority .
india is considered the cradle of modern polo .
you can reach every corner of the island with singapore s modern public transportation system .
palika bazaar another famous underground shopping centre is located here .
native americans inhabited montana when europeans first explored it includes the sioux , cheyenne , blackfoot , shoshone , arapaho , kootenai , and the flathead .
kullu is a congregation point of streams of reverie water drifting down from an astoundingly large number of valleys , which are eight in number .
like phang-nga , krabi offers a great opportunity for diving due to its numerous natural marine resources including over a hundred offshore islands .
just where the river damanganga flows into the sea lies daman , picturesque and serene on its enviable seashore locations .
brasilio itiber ( 1848-1913 ) was the first brazilian composer to use a popular national motif in erudite music .
circled by splendid himalayas , inter continental the grand palace was once the palace residence of the maharajas , and its enviable location offers beautiful views of srinagar s central showpiece , the dal .
himachal tourism development corporation has constructed a glass house for residential purpose in solan .
a team of constructors , who had worked on the great metal viaduct projects , were responsible for the 150 to 300 workers on site assembling this gigantic erector set .
dadra & nagar haveli is a boon for families , geared up for children with parks and gardens at many locations .
the sunny , southern coastal town is named after the local goddess mangladevi .
they were no match for the fives-lille units and were scrapped respectively in 1900 from the south pillar and shortly after 1912 from the north pillar , after a failed attempt to re-power it with an electric motor .
the desert state of rajasthan , india has a rich cultural heritage and a number of rulers have ruled this region in the past and patronized artisans and have left their legacies in the form of architectural specimens such as mighty fortresses , mansions , temples and art forms such sculptures and paintings .
the throne is decorated with gold , precious stones , ebony , and ivory .
for floor coverings you can try kharal , a traditional floor spread woven entirely from camel and goat hair .
while you can sit on the small landscape lawns and eat , the place can get rather crowded especially on weekends .
mathura , a quiet town on the river yamuna was transformed into a place of faith after lord krishna was born here .
india travel destinations , the travel guide , offers a wide range of opportunities to the dare devils amongst the tourists and the strong hearted travelers to undertake parasailing in india which is a fast picking up sport as far as adventure tourism in india is concerned .
india travel destinations , our tour guide , provides the willing with an opportunity to travel down to mathupetty reservoir for a taste of speedboat racing and visit the delights of the indo-swiss farm located in the near vicinity of chithirapuram .
emperor akbar founded this city in 1575 and called it by name of ` illahabas , which has now become modern allahabad .
most of the good restaurants are in the sadar bazaar and cantonment areas .
on the way to kumbhalgarh lays the magnificent dam - the rajsamand lake .
many of the islands are surrounded by fringing reefs , often several hundred meters wide and separated from the shore by a lagoon of similar width .
king si indrathit had two sons-pho khun ban mueang and pho khun ramkhamhaeng and after death , pho khun ban mueang succeeded him .
its lotus pool and leafy environs are popular with residents .
renovated in the 19th century the kumbhalgarh fort is accessible only by jeep from kelwara through the seven gates .
the latest occupants tend toward trendy media types which can be a mixed blessing ! hatton garden is the centre of london 's jewellery trade , and you 'll see many traditional jews in frock coats and black hats plying their trade .
if the crush of the market gets to you , wander down to the canal and jump onto a barge for a trip through the attractive residential area of little venice with its grand victorian villas .
the sufi saints are considered to be the greatest ambassadors of islam in pakistan and india .
the eco camp is a unique experiment by the assam anglers ' association and the state 's forest department .
for the perfect cleansing of mind , body and soul , head to pousada tauma , colonial style boutique hotels with a dash of ayurveda thrown in .
but for those determined to play the business game in uttar pradesh , here are a few pointers .
as you step into little india , be prepared for an overpowering of the senses .
in 1984 , 38 canvases of the notable painter , chen yifei , were exhibited in a new york gallery of armand hammer , chairman of occidental petroleum corporation .
trident hilton , bhubaneshwar , if you looking for luxury , pick this five-star hotel that spells all things fine. part of the international hilton group of hotels , it is set in 14 acres of lush lawns and fruit orchards , and makes for a peaceful , charming stay option .
maharaja bhupinder singh was deprived of the right of entry into the more royal and grandiose shimla as he had a spat with lord kitchener .
this sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from jammu , india .
palace on wheels is a journey worthy of kings .
ride through the corbett and rajaji national parks for an awe-inspiring sight of mighty elephants , beautiful cheetal , the majestic tiger , and a stunning variety of migratory birds .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
spas and retreats , which range across all budgets , offer long-term therapy for specific diseases detoxifying and reviving routines and quick relaxing massages .
the statue was occasionally decorated with gifts from kings and rulers and the most notable of these gifts was a woolen curtain `` adorned with assyrian woven patterns and pheonician dye `` which was dedicated by the syrian king antiochus iv .
in the past many notorious murderers have been tried in that court , including dr crippen , the victorian wife-killer who was the first man to be caught by use of a radio signal , when he tried to flee london for his home in america .
if you are unable to find rooms in hotels or circuit houses , especially during the festivals , staying with a naga family as a paying guest is a great idea .
if you drive your own vehicle , an international or a valid country driving license is mandatory for all drivers , traffic drives on the left and though road traffic is heavy , the roads are in good shape with frequent service and gas stations and highway restaurants enroute .
according to legend , when lord shiva was going to kashi along with one crore other gods and goddess , he made a halt at this location for a night .
he is undoubtedly the samudra gupta of kashmir .
live in the homes of the tribals and enjoy their hospitality .
there is only one small pousada here , but the ecotourism options are endless ! another unforgettable option is to stay in one of the surrounding towns , where the infrastructure for ecotourism is developing rapidly , while maintaining its historical charm from the days when it was the seventh largest port in the country .
situated at fort canning park , the academy offers a leisurely and fun environment for experiential learning for tourists , business travellers , culinary and hospitality college students and locals alike .
this fermented mushroom is usually fried and cooked with black sesame seeds and , you ve guessed it , pork .
sostratus , a contemporary of euclid , was the architect , but detailed calculations for the structure and its accessories were carried out at the alexandria library / mouseion .
ooty lake is a very popular tourist spot in ooty .
a l. o. / m . g and porters shall become entitled to free medical treatment from the party s surgeon / physician from the date they report to a party till the date their services are no longer required .
for the more adventurous , deep sea diving unfolds precious treasures of corals , vegetation , sponges and fish life .
over the last several decades , jakarta has proudly developed into one of asia 's most prominent metropolitan centers. today , jakarta 's skyline is covered by modern high rises .
generally , local calls are charged at 10 cents for every three minutes .
bamboo and straw are put to good use in daman , where mat weaving is one of the best known handicrafts .
the state 's population includes a startling mix of dravidians and aryans and tibeto-burmans. .
charming english country cottages were built around the nakki lake , and as time passed it became a british enclave - the official summer capital , where the chief commissioner for rajputana would move with his entourage for two months each year , from his administrative capital in ajmer .
the temple tower or the shikhara at the jagannath temple is as high as 192 feet .
the coastal climate of maharastra makes traveling pleasant all round the year .
just 21 kms from the city and easily accessible by road is the bannerghatta national park .
this central courtyard also enshrines the deity of the royal family .
the community kitchen feeds up to 10 , 000 people in a day , free of charges .
the ajmer sharif located in the oldest part of the town and is one of the most important historical sites that you must visit during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india .
geographical formations gradually changed the capes location , finally detaching it from the mainland .
the tower which houses big ben has been called by many names ; one of the most popular is st stephen 's tower .
street food , an ever popular option in india is available in and around every market place and outside the aurangabad city bus and railway stations ; it is cheap and tasty but not always very hygienic .
guesthouses and lodges provide standardized accommodation at low costs for the great indian middle class traveler who has to watch his wallet but will not compromise on cleanliness and hygiene .
the foundation of the temple was rectangular in form , similar to most temples at the time .
try the poo gathi , which is river crab meat in a spicy curry and the pla red prik ( crispy fried fish .
the shuttle offers a flexible routing system between singapore changi airport and almost all hotels within the city .
a few kilometers from manali is the rohtang pass , a place known for the divergent landscapes .
pattaya has a plain on the coast with some high mountains to the south and the area on the east slopes down towards the sea on the west .
the tiled floors , curved wooden ceiling , beautifully crafted doors and specially created pools add to the ambience of grandeur .
you learn that the long-haired camel with hair on its ears is the bikaner variety , famed for its strength .
it is an ideal getaway for picnic while traveling between dalhousie and chamba .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity , lord rama .
it is agreed upon by almost all the chinese people that the yellow river is the cradle of chinese civilization , the spiritual home of the chinese people .
chennai is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
the mughal described kashmir as paradise on the earth .
krabi horticultural centre , agro-tourism attraction , supported by the department of agricultural extension , is approximately 20 kilometers from krabi on the way to amphoe ao luek .
many of the homes lining the streets looked quiet like something out of a garcia marquez novel , with their old fashioned shuttered windows and charmingly shabby tiled roofs .
the buddhist circuit is a pilgrim 's passage through the places immortalized by the enlightened one. the highlight of your journey will be the holy bodhi tree at bodhgaya under which he gained enlightenment .
yet another carving is of harihara , the right half of this figure depicts shiva the destroyer and the left , vishnu the preserver .
' memory of hometown ' which depicts twin bridges was one of the items on display and has gained the world 's attention for zhouzhuang .
colorful crowds from all the surrounding villages congregate at this place to celebrate the festival with much enthusiasm .
aurangzeb chose khuldabad as his final resting place because the mausoleum of sayeed zain-ud-din , a muslim holy man lies next door .
mountaineering routes are graded , according to the degree of difficulty and accessibility .
in goa give the glitzy seaside resorts a miss , and head to one of these delightful boutique hotels or eco friendly lodges .
avantivarman died in a temple on the dal lake , when a fatal disease caught him , and in the words of kalhan , listening to the end to the song of the lord ( bhagvatgeeta ) and thinking of the residence of vishnu ( vaikuntha ) he cast off his earthly life with a cheerful mind .
a beautiful lake surrounded by a thick shoal where even sunlight can not penetrate and abundant with a wide variety of avifauna is a nature lover s paradise .
the annapura bhavani temple is located near the vishavanatha temple in varanasi , india .
it contains many tourist attractions such as taman mini indonesia indah ( beautiful `` indonesia in miniature `` park ) , restored colonial period buildings , island resorts in the pula seribu ( thousand island ) , and an extensive beach recreation complex called ancol .
the eastern boundary of the karakoram is the upper shyok river from where it extends over 322 km. westwards to the karumbar river and the hindukush range .
recorded evidence also exists in the revered scriptures the vedas and the grand epics , the ramayana and the mahabharata , as also in the puranas of this holy place allahabad formerly called prayag .
needless to say , the views of the undulating blue waters are majestic ; just step out into your personal balcony to soak in the salt fresh air .
the portuguese who first landed on brazilian soil in the 16th century began the transplantation of european culture to brazil. while the portuguese were still forming small , cautious groups to explore the unknown beaches , native indian potters were at work .
the well of saraswati is believed to be the source of the elusive river saraswati lies inside the fort .
habitat aurangabad city is located in the northern part of the state of maharashtra , in the western region of india .
threeday excursions include instruction in kayak management , camping and barbecue dinners and the exploration of eight islands , including ko chong lat and its blue room , a three chamber stalactite grotto .
the main tourist attractions are panchpula , kalatop and khajiar lake .
to get there is easy thanks to the docklands light railway , six stops south from canary wharf .
the final chapter came when in ad 401 the temple of artemis was torn down by st john chrysostom .
then there are well preserved forts and places of gwalior , orchha and mandu , guaranteed to transport you to a glorious era in madhya pradesh s history .
known as the darshani deori , the entrance is up a flight of steps and down again to the temple and holy tank .
the park s new addition , aqua , is the haunt for the city s hip n happening , so , come and enjoy your martinis and cognac by the temperature - controlled pool .
the ajmer lake , situated on the edge of desert and surrounded by hills on the three sides is separated from ajmer by nag paharthe snake mountain .
today the `` green laws `` of conservation are making people aware of how man and the environment can live symbiotically for more time to come and eco-tourism is the only way to maximize the economic , environmental and social benefits of tourism .
there are also an agricultural product promotion centre , herb gardens , fisheries and mussel farms located along the krabi-phuket route in krabi horticultural centre .
another 2km away , amongst the showpieces at the gallery of vintage and classic cars is a rolls royce phantom ii of 1934 vintage .
most of the temples in orissa , india are known for their indo-aryan nagara architectural style that apparently is distinctive of the temple architecture in orissa , india .
it is easy to forget about the sun with the wind on your face , but it is especially strong when reflecting off the water all around you , so wear protective sunblock .
new mexico was organized as a territory on september 9 , 1850 ( in 1863 , part of new mexico territory was separated to form arizona territory .
it has the mausoleum of the sufi saint , khwaja moinuddin chisti whose blessings are eagerly sought by pilgrims to his dargah .
his son fateh khan named the city he ruled over , fatehpur in 1626 .
the white-domed peace pagoda , or the shanti stupa , on shauli hill is a reminder of the days that emperor ashoka spent in this picturesque state .
situated on the slopes of malabar hill , kamla nehru park is mainly a children 's park named after the wife of india 's first prime minister .
sunder nagar is famous for its temples , 26 k.m. from mandi towards shimla and at a height of 1 , 174 meters on the raised edge of a fertile valley .
emerald pool is hot spring originates from a warm stream in the lowland forest of khao nor juji which is supposedly thailand 's last piece of virgin and fertile forest .
an extremely well planned city , jaipur was designed by an engineer and scholar vidyadhar bhattacharya , in accordance with ancient hindu treatise on architecture , the shilpa shasta ( vastu ) .
with the first light of dawn , the reflection of the temple in the tank gives an ethereal atmosphere to the complex .
also worth picking up the pungent ( stinky , say some ) goan sausages , or chouricos , as they are known locally .
while trekking as a sporting activity does not require prior training or practice , except that the trekker should be in good physical condition , there are certain dos and don'ts which should be adhered to .
the 12 - spired temple with its enormous courtyard is surrounded by 12 other temples dedicated to lord shiva .
with a lot to offer the avid tourist including incredible deccan mughal architecture , the most pleasant feature of aurangabad is its inhabitants .
the legislators paused en route for several days to conduct business at ebenezer , a small german settlement .
one of the temple 's outer walls carries an exquisite carving of sri krishna playing his flute , and within , there is a fine statue of lord ganesha .
splendid painted decoration on these royal architectural wonders , the grand and deluxe halls , with their surprisingly magnificent treasures will certainly satisfy ' modern civilians .
along the banks of river ganga is patna , ( originally known as pataliputra ) , the capital of bihar .
orissa beckons you to be its guest .
an 80-pillared hall belonging to the mauryan dynasty has also been found on excavations and the place is surrounded by greenery and gives a very scenic look .
it is a phenomenon that is proof of the technical excellence of ancient architects , of their knowledge of astronomy combined with great architectural skill .
many important rivers originate in the mountains and flow through the state ; they include the mighty ganga , yamuna , ramganga , gomti and ghaghara .
here , a 250 year old historically important beacon of light is preserved intact in its original and primitive form built in the typical kerala architectural style , this temple is famous all over india for the palpayasam , the daily offering of deliciously sweet milk porridge .
the ding-dongs that precede the striking of the hour were taken from george frederick handel 's ' messiah ' and actually have lyrics too .
to the east of the botanical garden is the toda mund ( hill ) .
the most renowned exponent was guru kelucharan mahapatra , who made odissi a worldwide phenomenon .
in one sense , it is with bustling markets , haphazard traffic , unyielding cattle , crowds and congestion typical of small town india .
the chhatrapati shivaji terminus better know as victoria terminus is a splendid example of gothic architecture .
the site beckons the clients with on-line booking of tour packages to the hills and relevant information about the hill stations of india ensconced in nilgiri hills .
in about the early 19th century ad , the british exercised their influence and annexed the areas of shimla after the gurkha war of 1815-16. .
the largest cave or the great chaitya cave is an impressive colonnaded temple with a pagoda .
later , the u .s . wanted to build a railroad through the area south of the gila river and purchased the area between the river and the southern boundary of arizona from mexico in the gadsden purchase in 1853 .
skyscrapers in the center of the city are part of a new look .
isaac shelby , a revolutionary war hero , was the first governor , and frankfort was chosen as the state capital .
power is forever in short supply and on the whole , a healthy business environment is sadly lacking .
chief black kettle was a southern chief chief who gained famed as an outspoken proponent of peace with white men .
the city offers all modern facilities needed by a visitor and is a centre for cultural activities .
a party shall also provide to porters standard kit/equipment , free of cost .
the bathing at prayag is mentioned in brahma puran s in the month of magha at the bank of ganga yamuna in prayag bestows results of millions and millions of ashvmedha yajnaprayag is birth place of som , varuna and prjapati .
singapore is linked to malaysia by two causeway bridges , and the key islands of the riau archipelago of indonesia are just a quick ferry trip away .
straddling banks of the brahmaputra , guwahati - said to be the legendary pragjyotishpur or city of eastern light - is a bustling , busy and crowded city .
kozhikode beach is replete with old world charm , with its romantic lighthouse and two century old crumbling piers .
clerkenwell is a fascinating and varied area of london which is at last witnessing a period of regeneration and rediscovery .
for breathtaking views of blue hazed hills and vales , head to phawangpui vantawang is the spectacular waterfalls 137 km from aizawl , among the highest in india at 230 m above sea level .
please check the current safety status when you plan a visit and bear in mind that many of the sights recommended here have been either destroyed or are out of bounds .
however , relations between ecuador and peru have been tense ever since .
a small charge is made for a 35 minute audio tour , which includes a visit to the crypt .
pragati resorts isn t just a place to stay , its a gateway in itself with something to engage everyone walking trails , a tower from which to view the infinite shades if green around , a lake for boating a mini adventure park with a wave pool and water sides , and an ayurvedic spa .
nagas certainly know what they like on their plate .
for elegance and luxury , the rooms and darbar hall of jehan numa palace get full marks while the vast courtyards add to the aristocratic ambience .
state emporia gangotri ( up govt . ) , kairali ( kerala ) , black partridge ( haryana ) and kashmir government arts emporium are all located at the taj mahal shopping arcade , western gate .
you are sure to enjoy shopping for ethnic clothes from anokhi , fabindia and kotwara in khan market .
if a helicopter is needed , a deputy commissioner shall arrange for the same on payment basis , but the party will have to a bear the expenses .
the sherpas live in the himalayan region , but the newars constitute an important ethnic group of the capital valley kathmandu .
the best thing about the trip is the distinctive terrain , and you will go through everything from sunny beaches to wooded forests .
75 km from agartala is , ' the peak of gods , where there are rock carvings of hindu gods like shiva ( the destroyer ) , vishnu ( the protector ) , kartik ( god of travel ) and durga ( goddess shakti .
variations of ikat are available through the state ; choose from the double-ikat designs of sambalpur , gold and silver embroidered ones from sonepur or the bamkai ikats that are embellished with striking shakti motifs .
before her , two other queens had ruled kashmir namely yashovati and sugandha .
apart from which , it has been actively involved in the arts , whether by the supporting the annual musical extravaganza flights of fantasy or bringing the international artists like flamenco high priestess rosana maya to india .
another delicacy of the new taj mahal cafe is the bibbeupkari ( tender cashews plucked before they become nuts and made with grated coconut spices ) , which is the seasnol offerings .
these elephants are exquisitely carved out of white marble .
east java 's topical climate means that october to april is the wet season , and may to september is the dry season with an average temperature of 20-30 c but the rainfall in east java is relatively low , on average of 2 , 000 mm per year .
there are several temples of interest in the uttaranchal that you may visit during your temple tours to the region .
there are also numerous one or two day treks out of pokhara town , where one can have views of dhaulagiri , the annapurna range , manaslu and ganesh himal .
and because of dangerous sailing conditions and flat coastline in the region , the construction of a lighthouse was necessary .
this historical monument is an excellent example of indo-saracenic architecture .
mandi is district made out of two princely states of mandi and suket .
camel safaris in india are a quit essentially rajasthani affair .
the gradient best suited for canoeing is the stage near the river 's entry into the plains where the trip can be combined with moderate hiking and a naturalist ' holiday in the forest .
britain gained control of florida in 1763 in exchange for havana , cuba , which the british had captured from spain during the seven years war ( 1756 63 ) . spain evacuated florida after the exchange , leaving the province virtually empty .
in 1768 ad the shah dynasty ascended the throne of the unified kingdom. his majesty king birendra bir bikram shah dev , is tenth king in the shah dynasty .
the khanvel forest rest house is unfortunately reserved for government staff , mainly forest department visitors , but it s a good place for a wander around .
the annual urs at dargah of khwaja moinuddin chishti is held on a grand scale and attracts pilgrims from all over the world .
occupied by the chand dynasty till the 18th century , it was annexed by the gurkhas in 1798 and finally the british after the gurkha wars of 1814 1815 .
these are some of the delights which adventure tourism in india has to offer to the interested souls .
bangalore is now an international airport as well and is currently served by lufthansa , malaysian airlines , indian airlines , air india and a few other international airlines .
it is well worth a visit to what londoner 's often call ' buck house ' but it can be very tiring .
the superb temples and monuments of this great city have been lovingly restored in sukhothai historical park , a unesco world heritage site and a must-see for all travellers .
when phraya tak 's army arrived in the vicinity of what is pattaya today , he encountered the troops of nai klom who tried to intercept him .
nestled in the tropical zone off the west coast of the southern part of thailand in the andaman sea and the indian ocean , the province covers an area of approximately 543 square kilometers ( excluding small islets .
the siachin glacier is 75 km , the hispar , ( 52 km ) joints the biafo at the hispar la 5 , 154 metres to form an ice corridor , 116 km. long .
when the civil war broke out in 1861 , kentucky was torn apart by conflicting loyalties .
the lands which the osage and quapaw had ceded to the united states government were set aside for indians who were being relocated from their tribal homes in the southeast .
the tower project was a bold extension of this principle up to a height of 300 meters - equivalent to the symbolic figure of 1000 feet .
agartala has no nightlife because of the intermittent insurgency .
huge amounts of timber and other materials were freighted from faraway provinces .
here is trident hilton hotel that will make you forget that gurgaon is a concrete jungle .
the novel shopping experience takes mussorie into a totally different class in comparison with other hill stations in india and adds to the beauty of mussoorie .
a visit to any of the monuments at mamallapuram will give you a good idea of skill possessed by the craftsmen in the area since the time of the pallavas .
the himalayas which have nearly fourteen thousands glaciers are one of the largest continental areas under ice .
chiang mai is one of the few places in thailand where it is possible to find in the heart of the city centuries-old chedis and temples next to modern convenience stores and boutique hotels .
other awards won include : asia 's leading first class airline : singapore airlines .
spanish and english sailors are believed to have sighted the oregon coast in the 1500s and 1600s .
india travel destinations happens to pave the way for a willing and interested nature seeker to embark on a journey to have a fruitful and meaningful sojourn with nainital , another exotic abode of peace nestled in the himalayas .
the reservations of the room can be made well in advance as per the requirements of the tour .
because the statues were of people and animals , the mausoleum holds a special place in history as it was not dedicated to the gods of ancient greece .
the sadar club was built by the british about 100 years ago and the ambience is wonderful especially if you like a round of golf .
the city is also a welcome departure from other large cities of india in its spacious layout and regulated life .
tigers and elephants wander through the remains of the original rainforest , where exotic rafflesia 's and orchids grow .
the result of all these measures was that a great increase of land became available for cultivation .
this permit is valid for port blair municipal area ; havelock islands ; long ; neil islands ; mayabunder , diglipur , rangat for a period of one month where night halt is permitted .
gauri udiyar , this sacred site is one place that you must visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal in north india .
in his right hand he holds a figure of victory made from ivory and gold .
sandy resort is another that offers many convenient facilities , and is also one of the oldest in daman .
carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers if you are staying in a hotel to maintain your own standards of cleanliness .
one of thailand 's finest warriors , king ramkhamhaeng made sukhothai a powerful and extensive kingdom which included many parts of what are today neighbouring countries .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available in plenty .
khuldabad is a walled city also known as rauza and famed as the ' heavenly abode .
some of the most popular temple tour destinations in rajasthan , india are the dilwara temples , kalki mata temple , mahavira temple , eklingji temple and the someshvara temple .
during your temple tours to rajasthan , india you must visit the dilwara temples located in mount abu .
a steep climb up rewards the weary visitor with an amazing bird s eye view of ajmer .
om puri s voice and some stunning lighting and sound effects help recreate the dark days that were .
today , a monument commemorates sergeant charles floyd , the only member who died during the expedition .
the kheer bhawani temple is the pilgrim centre of the goddess maharagya devi .
even better you can shop to the sound of live music , performed by internation bands in ingo s .
there are a rich variety of rare fauna and flora in meghalaya , which delight visitors .
the camel fair at pushkar can be another added attraction if the travelers want to witness a camel dance in all its elegant glory .
whether you are suffering from a serious health problem or just want to cleanse your system , the satya health spa is a perfect place .
hotel avis : its price - de - resistance is the crab masala , but how to eat the crab is more important than the dish itself .
on the wine list at leela palace kempinski , rice wines like soju add to the experience .
pykara falls is situated about 21 kms on the ooty mysore road , pykara boasts of well protected fenced sholas , toda settlements , undistributed grassy meadows and also a good wildlife habitat .
south west of jaipur , ajmer is an oasis wrapped in the green hills .
the local s throngs here for the no-preservative , melt-in a minute ice creams made in cavernous backrooms .
you re likely to find only minor branches of government banks that do not offer facilities such as atm and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling .
the permanent snowline , generally being in the region of 5 , 200 m , the degree of difficulty of mountaineering routes , can broadly be defined as requiring knowledge of basic mountaineering techniques .
the one to the right , the jawab ( answer ) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the mecca .
the royal hospital was founded in 1682 by charles ii and houses the chelsea pensioners ( distinguished ex-servicemen ) who you will probably see strolling around the streets of chelsea in their bright red coats and tricorn hats .
most of the trekking routes lies in the northern mountains of the hindukush , the karakorams and the himalayas .
the region around almora was ruled by the katyur dynasty from the 9th century ad .
visitors may drive across the bridge and through howrah , the industrial extension of calcutta or take ferry from chandpal or tekta ghats to the gardens .
this should be done within 14 days on arrival in india , irrespective of their actual period of stay .
located in the korat basin about 68 meters ( 227 feet ) above sea level , most of ubon ratchathani is a plateau sloping to the east to meet the maekhong river , a border between thailand and the lao peoples democratic republic .
the aryan influence over this area dates back to the period before the rig veda .
the temple was eventually restored and is labeled `` temple e `` by archeologists .
there s tribal jewellery , handicrafts , and wood carvings to choose from , but no one leaves nagaland without a colourful shawl .
bangalore is generally regarded as a place that most visitors like to chill out in .
the height and the strategic location serves as a favorite vantage point for the people and tourists to encamp themselves on the scattered rocks and watch the spectacle of sunrises and sunsets .
the st sebastian 's church here is an important christian pilgrim centre .
the kalindikhal trek promises to be a rare experience , even for the most seasoned trekkers .
from a fishing village in the 1960 's , pattaya has emerged as the favorite southeast asian vacation center .
beaver fur was considered on of the most precious commodities on the continent .
the ancient kingdom of melayu developed and grew in jambi and maintained relations with the mighty kingdoms of sriwijaya , majapahit and singasari , but was eventually attacked and annexed by sriwijaya in the middle of the 17th century .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you must visit the jama al-tamish that is popularly known as dhai din-ka-jhonpra. .
all - day dining is perfect at citrus , which has a display kitchen where expert chefs conjure up a variety of delicacies right in front of your eyes .
in salar jung museum there are one man collection of manuscripts , ancient weapons , costumes and curios. high court buildings .
regular bus service connect hyderabad with bangalore , chennai , nagpur , tirupati and other tourist centers in andhra pradesh .
surrounding the central chamber are four octagonal rooms where the other members of the royal family were to have been laid to rest .
in 1877 , sajjan singh placed a lavish order of crystal items from abroad for his personal use .
every part of tree is put to use - the fried flowers for snacks , the leaves cooked as a vegetable and a kind of oil extracted from the fruit , said to be richer and tastier than ghee .
a word of warning though - the english weather is unpredictable and performances are only cancelled when it s extremely bad - so bring a raincoat and a brolly .
egrets , darters , herons , teal , waterfowl , cuckoo , wild duck and migratory birds like the siberian stork that live there in flocks are a fascination for visitors .
to visit these tham lot nuea and tham lot tai two caves take the ao luk-laem sak route for approximately two kilometers and then take a right turn to the bo tho pier .
the last section is the two-storied dwelling which consists of several buildings which are quite different from the main hall , more comfortable and refined in pattern and atmosphere .
in summer , regular cultural programmes , fashion parade , flower and fruit shows are arranged in ooty .
beehive state , mormon state , land of the saints , salt lake state , utah was named either for the ute tribe , whose name means ' people of the mountains ' or the the navajo , who the white mountain apache referred to as ' yuttahih ' .
fatehpur sikri a city of yesteryear today lost in the mists of time .
the heritage of malabar coast is not just a matter of isolated monuments but of a living legacy .
safedas are not just any variety of guavas ; they grow only in allahbad , and are fidiculously expensive , but are entirely worth their price .
albert hall contains a fine collection of sculptures , paintings , decorative art objects , natural history specimens , an egyptian mummy and a celebrated persian garden carpet .
in kumbhalgarh wildlife sanctuary the most famous attractions are the flamingoes , cormorants , spoonbills and egrets which can be spotted during winters .
also know as the ' queen of hill stations ' , manali at an altitude of 1 , 829 meters and 40 km from kullu .
occupying a unique position at the junction of australian and asian submarine ridges marked by the wallace line , east nusa tenggara is one the world 's most dynamic and exotic marine environments with nearly every species of coral and tropical fish represented .
the state capital is salem , other major cities or towns include portland , eugene , gresham , beaverton , hillsboro , medford , springfield , bend and corvallis .
a motorcycle is speed and precision personified , with the possessor of the machine turning into a speed hawk , seconds after he or she spurts on the engine .
custer later met his end at the hands of sioux and cheyenne warriors in montana .
for details on the london pass and a list of attractions that it covers , click here .
by air bangalore is very well connected with the rest of india .
the most celebrated of shri krishna 's abode , gokul lies to the west of sadabad , 1.6 km from mahavan and 15 km south-east of mathura .
roha on konkan railway is the nearest railhead. mumbai is 165 kms. by road .
on the night of 21 july 356 bc , a man named herostratus burned the temple to ground in an attempt to immortalize his name , which he did indeed .
khajjiar is a modest grass-covered meadow located in the enchanting valley of chamba .
french traders and trappers , including the mallett brothers who named the platte river , were the first known white visitors .
they lie amidst beautifully kept gardens and a number of them have intricately carved stonework .
the historic buland darwaza , which is 85 feet high , was constructed by sultan ghayasuddin of mandu .
the capture of mobile in 1780 by the spanish during american revolution retained the west and east floridas as part of a war-ending treaty .
in panch jaungle camp there s a battery spacious dining area and a well stocked bar .
machiya safari park lies on the way to jaisalmer , about 1km from kailana lake .
the tastefully decorated rooms afford either a view of the river or the manicured lawns .
rudyard kipling has written , `` surely the gods live here ; this is no place for men .
a rajasthani safari peculiarly begins at delhi with the delivery of mobikes to the daring travelers marking nemharana as the starting point of this motor cycle safari in india as part of this unique aspect of adventure tourism in india .
karnataka s finest honey comes from bhagamandalam , near medikere , in the kodugu district , where some of the best apiaries are located .
at a height of 2 , 623 metres , dodabetta peak is the highest point in the district .
it packs quite a punch , but is absolutely yummy and worth braving , if you have the stomach for it .
he built a medieval fort on the same spot where the lighthouse once stood , using the fallen stone and marble .
originally a land of warriors , manipur has several monuments in the memory of those who laid down their lives to shield the state from incursions .
gochi is an unusual festival , which takes place in february in the bhaga valley , where villagers celebrate the birth of male children and token marriages for children below the age of six are also performed .
the highlights of your stay her could be moonlight fishing and trekking in the havelock jungles .
lepakshi has become a major tourist attraction because of the finest architecture and paintings found in the temples here .
assam is the gateway to the north-east and is dominated by the mighty river brahmaputra that has its origin in tibet .
you could tuck into pizza from a wood-fired oven .
spend your days meandering through scenic hills capes and misty forests , pack a picnic and wander up un trodden paths .
during the civil war ( 1861-1865 ) slavery increased greatly in arkansas after a cotton boom in 1818 .
among the charms of dalhousie are the throngs of tibetans , still in traditional garb , and the lovely picnic spots , pre-eminet among which is the plain of khajjiar .
mahatma gandhi marine national park at wandoor is at a distance of 29 km from port blair , covering an area of 281. 5 sq km .
hadimda devi and manu temple are some of the chief centers of worship in manali which are known all over in the eyes of the connoisseurs both for its architectural beauty and religious significance .
you may need to obtain permits for some places , but it s well worth the effort .
49 kms from bangalore city , ramanagaram is famous for its rock formations , a great attraction for rock climbers .
based on a poll of over 900 readers , the quorum awards have been running for 10 years .
you can also see the royal decree of prince jehangir advising rai singh to immediately proceed to delhi as emperor akbar is dying .
the mango tree special thali is the single best idea here don t bother with the rest of the menu , just order the banana coconut lassi .
the mall is the grand road that leads from trafalgar square , through admiralty arch , and on to buckingham palace .
in the town is the block printing unit of ismail sulemanji khatri , the award - wining craftsman who has revived the ancient art of making block prints using vegetables dyes from leaves , flower and even bark .
clean white sand , crystal clear water and a tranquil atmosphere has continued to attract tourists in search of peaceful and relaxing holidays .
windsor pub located off miller road in bangalore , is this delightfully authentic little pub .
the mysore palace is also thrown open to the visitors and the royal throne is displayed .
uniquely the interior has two royal boxes , originally installed to keep king george iii and his son , the future king george iv apart after they had a blazing row in the foyer .
literally kullu the valley of hundred temples and a thousand derties , it offers peace , a mysterious , spiritual peace .
brazilian folk arts are among the richest and most varied in the hemisphere .
two local dives in the poda / yawasam group cost approximately 1 , 900 baht .
alwar is nested between clusters of small hills of the aravalli range .
special restrictions apply to pakistani and afghan nationals .
whites remain the largest ethnic group but , for the first time , no longer constitute the majority .
born in dijon in 1832 , he graduated from the ecole centrale des arts et manufactures in 1855 , the same year that paris hosted the first world 's fair .
this peculiar hill resort bejeweled by the city center nakki lake , is one place amongst the hill stations in india which has a lot of legend attached to it .
' mother earth ' is kind in return : bolivia is beautiful and striking ; there are currently 10 national parks and eight protected areas .
the town has rich growth of deodar and pine forests as well as tea gardens .
paiute and the plateau tribes of the coeur d alene , nez perce and kootenai .
when the u .s . government broke its promises , some of the dakota went to war against the white farmers and towns .
it is still one of the most appealing attractions all around the world owing to its architectural grandeur and historical significance .
even elsewhere in the city , one can not fail to notice the dominant british influences in the form of old cathedrals , buildings in the indo-saracenic style of architecture , wide tree lined avenues .
the lofty battlements of the agra fort cast its protective shadow over the far stretching mansions of nobles and princes built along the riverfront .
all the major indian festivals are celebrated in banagalore with pomp and gaiety .
the only flew is that it s on one of the busiest crossroads of hyderabad and can get a little noisy , so ask to see a few rooms before checking in .
gasherbrum-ii , the `` egyptian pyramid `` that even cheops would have preferred for a tomb , chogolisa , the `` bride peak `` , in whose eternal embrace lies hermann buhi , the first man to climb nanga parbat .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of tour booking for tours to temples of haridwar in uttaranchal , india .
northern pakistan has the greatest concentration of the highest peaks of the world , it has 05 peaks over 8 , 000 metres including the world s second highest , k-2 ( chogori , 8611 m ) , 29 peaks of over 7 , 500 metres and 121 of over 7 , 000 metres .
the most of common items are canopies , called chanduas , lampshades and big umbrella with bigger handles ( chaatis ) , but you can also find bedspreads , cushion covers and wall hanging that you can frame and brighten up your living space with .
surajkund is 8 km from south delhi on way to faridabad .
it is probably the ugliest building in london , although the new british library may be another contender for the title .
none of them , however , survived to the present day .
darjeeling , with its unending stretches of fragrant tea garden , is a decadent reminder of times past .
both lalitaditya , and jayatida were great patrons of learning and extended their patronage to bhavabhuti , vakpatrija , udhata bhata , damodhar gupta , manoratha , sankhdanta and samadhimat etc .
the first european to enter what is now colorado may have been the spanish conquistador francisco vasquez de coronado in the 16th century .
recalling a longgon era , bisons , leopards and deer stare glassily from the walls .
rashtrapati bhawan is the official residence of the president of india was formerly known as the viceregal palace.it has an impressive garden called the mughal gardens .
the rose festival - a three day extravaganza , held usually in the last week of february , which brings the city of chandigarh alive .
in akhara bazaar other interesting buys include woolen socks , a small quilt called gudma , and grass slippers ( known as pullan ) made for goat hair and bhang fibre .
at jampore beach hit upon a great eatery nearby called the chinatown restaurant , on the staffs recommendation opt for the sweet and sour prawn and chilli fish , both are really delicious .
at the top stage , the mirror reflected sunlight during the day while fire was used during the night .
the dark-colored camels come from gujarat and the female camels are prized for their milk-producing capacity .
city palace is situated on the banks of lake pichola , a magnificant and inspiring citadel designed with the help of mirror and glass works .
no one without an eye for natural beauty would have chosen that special site for the construction of a temple , and no one with an inclination to the ephemeral and transient world have built it , on so massive , and enduring a scale .
the site india travel destinations offers a vast array opportunities to the more adventurous of tourists to try their skills at river rafting in india which is another addition to the vast spectrum of activities carried on under the ambit of adventure tourism in india .
maharashtra , restless yet serene , familiar yet mysterious , this western stunner of a state is full of colorful surprises .
but the city has donned a more contemporary face as a major industrial centre for pharmaceuticals , automobiles , textiles and electronics and as the gateway to the cave temples of ajanta & ellora .
few tourists venture far from brazil 's spectacular beaches but a trip into the interior reveals a different brazil , one with a great deal to offer the visitor .
you can stay in on of the five spacious suites , some with aging punkahs , each with its own verandah .
india travel destinations makes the place and its small and cheap shopping opportunity available to you by arranging for a trip to this unique hill station in india .
driven by a dynamic government , andhra pradesh has taken strides towards development and is today much better off than it was 10 years ago .
a spectacular road journey up and over the nag pahar ( snake mountain ) brings you to the holy town of ( 11 km away ) , on the banks of the picturesque pushkar lake .
patwon ki haveli is one of the largest and most elaborate havelis in jaisalmer , it is five stories high and extensively carved .
a multitude of reigning dynasties , of the great rajput clans of the pratiharas , kacchwahas and tomars have left indelible etchings of their rule in this city of palaces , temples and monuments .
bangalore , capital of karnataka , is called the garden city for its delicate blossoms and greenery that impart a unique beauty to this lovely city .
just one month after , due to the mexican-american war that in turn stemmed from the yankee takeover of texas , the american navy took control of california without firing a shot .
the damanganga river divides this sleepy little union territory in two , with its three main towns , silvassa , khanvel and dadra to the north , while the western gahts rise up in the south .
as you delve into the darkest chapters of our grim and bloody past , recreated in all its dreadful detail , remember : everything you experience really happened .
fly , flap , flutter , float with over 9 , 000 feathered friends from 600 species , jurong birdpark is one of asia pacific s most impressive bird parks .
in goa the colourful flea markets are famous , but it is the lovely old villas that hide the best shopping from antiques to haute couture .
fagu is another peculiar picnic spot in shimla , which can serve as an ideal honeymoon destination in india as part of the shimla circuit , for honeymooners in india .
up tourism organizes the taj mahotsav every year between 18th and 27th february .
there 's so much you can do , study temple and churches , stroll through whispering coconut groves .
lal bag contains the largest collection of rare tropical and sub-tropical plants with many awesome century-old trees .
nepal 's most popular trek begins at the lakeside town of pokhara and leads six or seven days north-west around the annapurna massif , through dramatic changes in landscape , climate and culture to the high village of jomsom , near the isolated land of mustang .
also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize .
the 36 rooms , house around 35 , 000 exhibits from all over the world including sculptures , illuminated manuscripts , unusual collections of jade , marble statues , rare manuscripts , persian miniature paintings , chinese porcelain and other objects d'art. .
mon , in this village , shop for wood carvings , guns and gunpowder ( we re not suggesting anything ) , headgear and necklace .
located approximately 862 kilometers south of bangkok is phuket , thailand 's largest island .
away from hustle and bustle chail is quit peaceful and comfortable place to visit .
honeymooners in india can option for khajuraho if they have a feel for a classy type outing and also a yen for the indian historicity .
on the way to mussoorie , stop at the now defunct toll gate , kolhu khet , for the most amazing pakoras and tea .
a camel safari in india , thus carried out can be a thrilling experience for the uninitiated one as the wind swept tracts of sand coupled with the beatific sunsets and sunrises on the offing , are a treat to watch and are a once in a lifetime opportunity .
the insectivorous pitcher plant is very rare , and the clouded leopard , golden cat , slow loris and peacock pheasant are only a few out of the many species of fauna found in the state .
green valleys with turbulent rivers , rhododendron forests teeming with countless wildlife are aside .
the southeastern half was acquired from great britain in 1818 when the international line with canada was fixed at the 49th parallel .
nebraska city and other towns on the missouri river became shipping centers and supplied both the military outposts and the new settlers .
the first permanent settlement was established in 1851 when another group settled at pembina .
some call it the most beautiful place in matheran .
the best time to visit ajmer is of course during the festival of urs .
a land of mirth and merriment , rarely a month passes without a festival or two .
and when it fell , `` few people can make their arms meet round the thumb `` , wrote pliny .
before madame tussaud had established herself in london , her collection of wax figures toured all around the country in wagons and caravans .
although it disappeared from existence , the ancient world wonder inspired modern artists such as french sculptor auguste bartholdi best known by his famous work .
jantar mantar , one of the five observatories built by maharaj jai singh , in 1718 .
more than 200 artisans from all over india ply their wares and encourage the loosing of your purse strings .
the lighthouse continues to be mentioned in their writings and travelers accounts .
today , tourists are surprised by the fact that there is always something new to discover chiang mai .
in hotel kohinoor you ll also find diu s lone disco , footloose go here i fyou want to party with gujarati students on amerry night out , but it s probably better to unwind by opting for a massage at ayura , the ayurvedic spa , instead .
kamadgiri is a forested hill of prime religious significance ; this is believed to be the original chitrakoot .
panja durries of panipat those are truely unique .
mysore was the capital city of hyder ali , tipu sultan and the entire wodeyar clan .
the state highway that connects the two cities could provide a pleasant ride through rustic country side .
the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttaranchal are the most popular destinations for trekkers , though chamba and manali in himachal pradesh , and ladakh and zanskar in jammu and kashmir , have interesting trekking routes as well .
mountains cross the entire central portion of the province. the cool slopes contain numerous hill resorts ( tawangmangu , kaliurang , sarangan .
set against the backdrop of the aravali hills , haryana s special attraction is not only the now popular connect of highway tourism but also cultural events like the surajkund crafts mela .
there are almost 120 shrines located inside the temple .
the church is dedicated to infant jesus and also has statuses of six saints .
andhra pradesh is also a land of warm and hospitable people , which explains why every traveler young or old - loves to visit this state , right from the araku valley to tirupati , from bassara to konaseema .
come to arunachal pradesh , the last frontier , for a close encounter with nature , or culture , or an especially tranquil retreat .
sit around a bonfire ; listen to the local elvis belting out the blues , and share cheese and munchies while sipping homemade wine .
clear skies and low temperatures provide series of uninterrupted sessions .
authentic down to its creaking floorboards , the planter s club offers you a charming glimpse into tea garden luxury .
the convenience comforts and pleasure that you ll find in strolling around this bright space is just wonderful .
hazrat miran was the governor of ajmer at some point of time in history .
the best time to visit kullu is during dusshera in the month of october .
khorat has an abundance of natural attractions in its forests , hills , wildlife and waterfalls that are easily accessible in locations such as khao yai national park .
another convenient way to travel to and from singapore changi airport is to take the maxicab , a six-seater taxi shuttle service operating daily from 0600 hrs to midnight .
the german bakery is one of the best places for a scrumptious breakfast , it is known for such baked goodies as cakes , cookies , muffins and doughnuts .
you will find many couples sitting on it with the taj mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit .
the first clear record of african-americans in arkansas is from 1721 , more than a hundred years before statehood .
like chitral to the west , hunza manifests its age-old-contact with central asia , the consequence of lying abreast of the caravan routes that spread south from the all-important passes .
ajmer the city where the dargah of the great sufi saint khwaja moinuddin chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage .
its abstract qualities , without practical purpose in themselves , and the purity of its design , made it a subject for the many forms of artistic expression of the city and country which had created it .
green bay became the center of the wisconsin fur trade , and nicolet formally claimed the entire region for france in 1686 .
initially the predominant cultural influence in the city was that of the dvaravati culture , however , it was later replaced by the khmer culture .
the ambience may be a little kitschy , but it is really quite charming .
there are live classical and folk performances , as well as mango-eating competitions for the ambitious and you ll leave with the sweetest taste in your mouth .
you also get to watch naga woman at work on their traditional looms , weaving the beautiful shawls .
when lewis and clark passed through south dakota in 1804-06 , the region was inhabited by the agricultural arikara and the nomadic sioux ( dakota ) .
nestled in the lush hills and hidden away behind rows of tree s , lord s central is a lovely old parsi establishment offering stunning view of the sahyadri hills .
the dutch east indies company , which captured the town and destroyed it in 1619 , changed its name into batavia and made it the center for the expansion of their power in the east indies .
amidst a refreshing and aesthetically appealing environment , the park offers a one-stop solution integrating office , production , commercial , residential and recreational needs in a single location .
another temple dedicated to lord shiva is the someshwara temple built by kempe gowda in ulsoor .
the columns were 20 m ( 60 ft ) high with ionic capitals and carved circular sides .
you need not to plead for a sea facing room in hotel sinclairs , that s because this hotel doesn t have any rooms that don t overlooks the crystal-clear water , it allows you the privilege of enjoying the beaches without even stepping out of the room .
the forbidden city is divided into two parts , the southern section , or the outer court was where the emperor exercised his supreme power over the nation and the northern section , or the inner court was where he lived with his royal family .
iridescent kingfishers , pink flamingos , pelican s rare species of eagles and much more , gujarat is sure to delight bird watchers from all over the world .
the tribal groups have interesting variety of vegetables , flavoursome wild mushrooms , bamboo shoots , rotis made from various flours , freshwater crabs and river fish like rohu and crab .
pattaya city is located on the eastern coast of the country at latitude 13 n and longitude 101 e in the area of chon buri province .
for local food , try the simple stalls in bara bazaar or the dhabas in zodin square .
party shall include in the expedition , as it member , at least one liaison officer / mountain guide to be detailed by the government of pakistan , travel cum trekking agency as the case may be .
during the american revolution , there was relatively little fighting within the state , but many north carolinians saw action elsewhere .
a three day festival of music , the bhakti utsav is a combined richness of the various kinds of music practiced and loved in the indian subcontinent , from the classical to the traditional to the folk. the utsav transcends boundaries of religion and language and sanskrit chants , folk bhajans , qawwalis , carnatic devotional songs . . the list is endless and wonderfully accomplished .
the economic ruin was hastened by the extravagant habits of both the rulers and the ministers .
from the classical compositions of villa-lobos , to the soft sounds of bossa nova to the driving beat of samba , brazil has developed music of striking sophistication , quality , and diversity .
the heart of dixie ; historically , yellowhammer state , alabama ( thicket clearers ) takes it name from the alabama river , which in turn was named for the alabama indian tribe .
the pykara dam , pykara falls and the reservoir attracts many tourists .
despite the care which eiffel took in the project , the liquidation of the canal construction company , compagnie du canal , on february 4 1889 , led to his own indictment for fraud alongside de lesseps and his son , and to a sentence of two years in prison and a fine of 2000 francs , even though nothing could really be blamed on him personally .
the great wall starts from shanhaiguan pass in the east to jiayuguan pass in the west traversing provinces of liaoning , hebei , beijing , tianjin , shanxi , inner mongolia , ningxia , shaanxi and gansu .
the baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot .
chail has also the highest cricket ground in the world .
far east square is heaven for foodies ! the award-winning architectural aesthetics , and restaurants , bars and cafes attract both tourists and locals .
raffles was an extraordinary and energetic man of wide-ranging interests .
thrissur pooram , a 30-hour long festival in the summer is known for its caparisoned elephant processions .
pack in light woolens for the winter months and cool cotton clothes for summer ; hats and shades for the hot sunny days ; a first aid kit consisting of basic medicines and prescription drugs .
every february march there is a dance festival held here called siddhendra yogi dance festival .
if you like your food robust and full of flavour look no further than the signature north-west frontier cuisine at baluchi .
shops at nike , adidas , and proline for all kind of sportswear and sports accessories , there s provogue , identiti , lifestyle , pantaloons , westside and shoppers stop for the latest in the men s and women s fashion , both in indian and western wear .
windows shopping can t get any better than here , in shilaramam .
for a celestial trip of the scientific kind , visit the planetarium its worth every moment here you can take your weight on moon and jupiter , a moon model on display .
the china great wall academy has called for greater protection of this important relic .
the sri parthasarathy temple is located in triplicane in chennai , india .
most of echo tourism areas are in natural parks and specific historical-cultural areas .
spread over grassy lawns dotted with rocks and tinkling waterfalls , this scenic art and crafts village lets you buy straight from the artesian even as you watch them at work .
britto affords beautiful views , especially at night , with the lighthouse at fort aguada on the left and baga hill jutting out on the right .
for a visit to the gurudwaras , head covering is required , simple scarves or handkerchiefs will suffice .
beginning in the 1870s , residents from northern states visited florida as tourists to enjoy the state s natural beauty and mild climate .
it includes two zoological gardens , to quote a natural scientist .
from the top , you get a commanding view of the entire fort complex , and were used by akbar and his consorts .
inland waterways which flow above land level are an amazing feature of this region .
the khunjerab pass , which the highway crosses , and the nearby mintaka pass lie astride the fabulous ancient silk route that led from europe to asia and over which history 's most famous tourists once travelled .
east nusa tenggara islands have been shaped by the power and force of an enormous chain of mountains and volcanoes , which begins from the north of sumatra and stretches east across java .
from 1089 to 1101 a. d . , king harsha ruled kashmir .
the mausoleum was completed around 350 bc , three years after maussollos death , and one year after artemisia 's .
a transmigration program supports a migration flow to this province. the population density of this province was 68 people per km2 .
residents also contributed to the violence that tore kansas apart after the passage of the kansas-nebraska act in 1854 .
the distinctive feature of the muchhal mahavira temple is the statue of lord mahavira with a moustache .
all over sikkim , steaming momos and the convenient one dish meal thukpa are irresistible .
the village of amanat khan , southwest of amritsar has an old mughal 'serai ' ( rest house ) with a tiled gateway .
a l.o./m.g. shall extend maximum assistance to a party in making its mission a success. he shall not handle any cash nor undertake any financial transactions on behalf of a leader/party. .
the region is quite uninhabited , so the visitor must bring along all food and camping equipment .
in a city of gardens that bangalore is , the cubbon is a premier attraction for all those who seek some respite from the busy metropolitan life here .
the adilabad district is bounded by maharastra state in the east , west and north directions , karimnagar and nizamabad districts in the south direction .
there are nature parks and picnic spots at kufri .
the laotian influence is evident in the architectural structure of some of the city 's religious buildings of ubon ratchathani .
the 2000 years old archaeological remains situated at an altitude of 2600 ft above sea level include two buddhist stupas and 6 monasteries , scattered over the slope opposite the main structure of the ski resort , measuring 310 meters north to south and 500 meters east to west .
jakarta is uniquely the seat of both the national as well as the regional government .
there is a light at the top of the tower which , when lit , indicates that the house of commons is sitting .
choose from the accessories such as beads or pendants , furniture , screens , statues , toys stationary items and even bookmarks made from sandalwood .
cochin was once an insignificant fishing village .
you ll find tibetan carpets , cds with folk music and chants , herbs , thangkas ; mask , and idols of the buddha .
for those who want to turn cycling into a keenly contested game , in rajasthan there is cycle polo too .
there are three gateways into the fort , which is surrounded by a 7 meter wall .
lal bagh , these 240-acre gardens were laid out during the muslim era ( 18th century ) by hyder ali and tipu sultan , 200 years ago .
nalwari fair is an essence a cattle fair , held in month of march in bilaspur .
another must check out is tehsil singh ka dhaba , a great favourite with locals .
a perfect combination of arts and design , city palace is known for its advancement in technology and architecture .
you will relive the daily routines and special events as captured by the artists while you are exploring the 750 caves .
nathu garden , dimapur , stay in cottage built to resemble traditional naga huts , but with all modern facilities at your fingertrips .
meanwhile , the great influx of miners was redirected to farming , trade , and business .
there are evidences of the existence of the pre-historic humans in this region .
the prehistoric site of ban prasat is an evidence of this occurrence while traces of both the dvaravati and khmer cultures are scattered throughout the province , particularly at amphur sung noen and amphur phimai .
rajasthan is the safest state in india in terms of law and order ; it offers to its tourists a safe and secure environment .
the barge also travels as far as regent 's park where you can be dropped in the middle of the famous london zoo .
entertainment is limited to cinema halls that screen hindi and bengali movies .
bafla is a large round ball of wheat flour roasted on cow dung cakes ; it is usually dipped in dal and soaked a lot of ghee .
the plan to build a tower 300 meters high was conceived as part of preparations for the world 's fair of 1889 .
one can imagine the crowd ! so far away from the maddening crowd , that too free vista for viewing the taj is on the sandy bank of the river yamuna at the mehtab bagh gardens .
in your pursuit of peace and solitude , perhaps you will come across amboli , a tranquil hill station on the western ghats , surrounded by thick forests and tree canopied hills .
camel breeding farm is just 8 km away from the city , at the govt. run camel breeding farm , you discover a lot about the ship of the desert .
most hotels are in the middle budget category and these will charge upwards of rs.200 for a double room with attached bath .
there is a small mosque on the second floor , which is the oldest in hyderabad .
the ganges river , which forms the backbone of uttar pradesh , is the holy river of hinduism and there are several important pilgrimage towns along it .
high himalayas , karakoram and the hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line , coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub , the vast indus plain merging into the great desert , the coast line and wetlands , all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna , both endemic and migratory .
the city palace was built by maharaja jai singh ii and is a synthesis of mughal & rajasthani architecture .
frenchmen established the first european settlement on the lower mississippi near the arkansas river .
india travel destinations , the tour guide , presents the willing and exploring tourist to discover and partake of the glorious sight of camel safaris in india , which is a very popular aspect of adventure tourism in india .
however , the most convenient railhead is guwahati ( assam ) , which is very well connected to the rest of india .
ask around discreetly though , and you ll find that every second stall stocks chhang .
khorat 's most popular annual event is the thao suranari festival , a celebration of thao suranari 's victory over the lao .
the construction of imperial bombay continued well into the 20th century .
this temple is located at a distance of 8 kilometers from bageshwar and is popular for a large cave that enshrines idols of the hindu deity lord shiva .
the state offers a whole bouquet of experience for tourists just place a finger anywhere on state s map and you will find a place of interest .
the most of lasting image of orissa is that of the golden triangle , formed by the jagannatha temple , the sun temple and the lingaraja temple , a big draw for the spiritually inclined .
at that time it was still called barking abbey although it was no longer a monastic abbey .
you can take a look at some of the 81 hindu temples in the area .
great britain obtained the area after the french and indian wars in 1763 .
a camera is a must to capture on film one of the wonders of the world ! bring light cotton clothes , comfortable sandals and a hat in the summer and in winter , some light woolen clothes ; evenings get a bit chilly .
this is another interesting temple that you may visit during your temple tours to assam , india. according to legend the hindu deity lord shiva burnt the god of desire kama to ashes .
chiang mai s rich traditional heritage and unique culture is a perfect foundation for the development of the city .
if you are not one of those who like breathing through a pipe 15 feet under water , take one of the glass-bottomed boats available .
chonburi is a popular resort among bangkokians who seek the nearest escape from hectic weekly schedules as chon buri has something for everyone .
nandgaon is famous for its ganapati temple and the annual fair held in honor of this elephant headed god every february .
in the first month of the kerala year , chingam ( august-september ) , floral carpets , made by women , grace the towns throughout the state ; adorned elephants parade in thrissur and long decorative boats race the backwaters of alappuzha .
visitors can stroll into a thousand years of history at the historical parks of sukhothai , lop buri , si satchanalai and ayutthaya. out of the historical parks , phra pathom chedi in nakhon pathom is an awe-inspiring sight : the tallest buddhist monument in the world and also where buddhism was first taught in this buddhist country .
the high land plains are found in the center of central java with mountains stretching lengthwise from the west to the east with a line of mountains , such as mount slamet ( 3 , 428 m ) , mount perahu ( 2 , 585 m ) , mount sindoro ( 3 , 135 m ) mount sumbing ( 3 , 321 m ) , mount merapi ( 3 , 142 m ) , mount ungaran ( 2 , 050 m .
it was named `` patna `` in the 16th century under the great afghan king , sher shah suri .
the architecture of the buildings of chamba reflects the aura of its former rulers .
more important , however , delhi blends within its folds the great cultural variety of india ; an unceasing range of activity , a million ways of saying ' you are welcome .
the siddhendra yogi s dilapidated dance school has today been transformed into a lovely fine arts collage called siddhendra kalakshetra .
phi phi islands , together with the nearby noppharat thara beach , a total area of 390 square kilometers , were recently established as a national park .
vrindavan , a village - once noted for its fragrant groves , is where lord krishna spent an eventful youth .
canter or gallop on the soft tracks and the opportunity to stop and examine whatever catches your fancy , is always in the forest of sal .
bricky gate tower carved with lively and ingenious figures which tell the historic stories or show the good wishes , make it a rare artwork .
since then , the great wall has served as a monument of the chinese nation throughout history .
guajrat has a rich tradition of producing fine handicrafts such as textiles , furniture and jewellary , but nowhere is this impressive heritage morea evident than in kutch , aland occupied by nomadic tribes who have refined their craft , especially embroidery into fine arts .
this will not only be a chance to get acquainted with the hardworking tribals of orissa , but also to sample authentic oriya cuisine .
the sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation , which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too .
opt for black lotus if you want some great oriental food and the rooms here are plush , spacious and the personalized service makes al the difference .
there are 50 , 000 manuscripts written in many languages apart from artifacts in mogao caves .
by daybreak , the ingredients transforms into the divine nehari , , a thin spicy soup that gets its unique flavour from potli , containing sandalwood powder , rose petals , votives roots , camphor and 27 other spices .
the small village of lava , located at 2 , 353 m above sea level and about 30 km east of kalimpong , is an important place to visit .
the main mountaineering locales are in the garhwal and kumaon regions of uttar pradesh .
once the tranquil hilltop retreat of meditating rishis , mount abu was considered to be a holy spot , inhabited by no less than 330 million different gods and goddesses .
there are an array of sports and recreational activities including beaches , golf courses , tennis courts , go-kart , gyms for working out , weight lifting and thai-boxing gear .
the history of elephanta is the hoary mists of time .
foreigners however are served alcoholic drinks at some hotels upon showing their passports .
late in the 1800s numerous immigrants from finland , poland , and czechoslovakia also settled in minnesota .
mandi is comparatively hotter than other hill stations of himachal pradesh .
for those of you that can not get through a holiday without sport ; the sadar club at ratanada offers a round of golf .
the judge s court heritage resort relies entirely on local , organic produce and flavours to rustle up himachali food in pragpur .
honeymoon in shimla can be a gratifying experience going by the itinerary of places , which are on offer .
fatehpur sikiri is a city built in red sandstone .
sightseeing aizawl is devoid of sunlight for most parts of the day because of its precarious perch on a ridge and the concrete buildings that have come up in the city .
the bharatpur museum is a major source to have a date with the past royal glory of the place .
communities shared common cultural ground in terms of buddhism , trading , governance , and architecture in thailand .
rich in both fire and flavour , and laced with more than a hint of portugal , goan cuisine is defined by the bounty of the sea .
overnight luxury buses connect aurangabad from mumbai ( 12 hours ) via pune or manmad .
calcutta 's fascination defies analysis ; it is an addiction , an affair of the mind and heart .
paintings of the dasavatharam are on display on the inner walls of the chuttambalam ottanthullal , a satiric art form originated by the poet kunchan nambiar , was first performed on the premises of this temple .
there are buses to badami from bijapur , bangalore , hubli , gadag and ilkal .
the city of ajmer was founded in the 7th century by raja ajaipal chauhan who named it ajaimer or the invincible hill .
one marine eco-tourism , the last 30 years saw the country establishing 18 marine national parks as well as more than 70 terrestrial ones. many of the activities available on and around thailand 's crystal seas are environmentally sound .
jodhpur has some festivals that are special if not unique to it , the kite festival of jodhpur being one of them .
the site india travel destinations makes sure that you get an opportunity to enjoy the rustic glory and ancient charm of the city of ajmer in rajasthan , india during your tours to historical monuments in the northern part of india .
pataudi palace is vow a hotel , and one of the most special places to stay in haryana .
annual festival arthunkal perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810 , the church is dedicated to st george .
if you prefer to see the wall in a relatively natural state , visit simatai , 110km north-east of beijing .
on the other hand , ko rok nok has soft white sandy beaches and shallow water coral reefs towards the southeast and south with hat thalu and ao man sai situated at the end of the island .
kalamkari , the art of dyeing with vegetable oils and colors , still flourishes and silk sarees woven in the state rank among the most beautiful in the world .
built in akbars favorite style in red sandstone , this 8 square kilometer complex houses several buildings , which are an amalgamation of hindu and islamic architecture .
within the dargah lies a mosque , built by the mughal emperor shah jahan .
the shankaracharya temple is located on top of a hill in srinagar in kashmir , india and this sacred temple is known as the takht-i-sulaiman as from this point you have the most panoramic view of the entire city of srinagar in kashmir , india .
the nearest airport to nalsarovar bird sanctuary is ahmedabad ( 60km ) ; the closest airport to the little rann of kutch is ahmedabad ( 105 km ) take atrain to dhrangadhra ( 22 km ) , and hire a cab .
the descendants of the mississippians were the illiniwek tribes of the 17th , 18th , and 19th centuries .
tourist lodge inside sephijala wildlife sanctuary , living amidst these tranquil surrounds will be an experience difficult to forget , or match .
gangtok road is an important attraction near kalimpong .
a tour to the rain soaked silhouettes of lakkidi would enable the tourists to decipher the same magic .
meditate and practice yoga in the amphitheatre and reward yourself with mud baths and massages .
the hunting lodge of the maharaja of orchha once stood on this lavishly decorated hotel known as bundelkhand riverside painstakingly built by madhukar shah , the heir to a long line of maharajas , who chose virtually every tile that makes up the structure .
adjacent rooms contain 17th and 18th century murals illustrating scenes from indian epics like the ramayana and mahabharata .
on your way back stop at the paigah tombs , a landscaped garden where the entire qutb shahi clan is buried ; paigah is about a kilometer from the fort .
a bulbous white double dome majestically crowns the taj .
pattaya s exotic beach resort welcomes approximately 5 million visitors a year .
although covent garden is usually packed with visitors , the area remains attractive and vibrant .
to honor chan and muk , a monument was established at tha ruea intersection , 12 kilometers to the north of phuket city in 1966 .
as its name suggests , the restaurant is set in the shade in the shade of a 300 year old banyan tree , and is made even more appealing by its shimmering fish pound .
the concept of london being made up of a series of villages is illustrated no better than in the delightful north london suburb of hampstead .
being situated very close to the sea , cochin has a moderate climate .
the flower show that puts on display hundreds of species of roses housed in the world famous rose garden of chandigarh now includes music and dance performances , both classical and folk , events for children , exhibitions by local artists , photographers and craftsman and a wide range of amusements .
he has many other features like omnipresence , eternality , and formlessness , though independence is peculiar to him .
but it is the frequent rains that send the relative humidity levels zooming up through out the year .
a giant electronic quartz flower clock is also in the garden of all bag .
though the city has well equipped shops , branded cosmetics and toiletries may not be easily available but items like camera films etc are easily and widely available .
also try shantipur , fulia , guptipara and samudragarh in nadia district , 75 km from kolkata ; and begumpur , rajbalhat and dhanekhali in hooghly district , 47 km from kolkata .
in the northern regions of pakistan , at a stone 's throw from the amu darya , is bam-e-dunya ( the roof of the world ) . this name was given to the great pamir plateau , apex of six of the mightiest mountain ranges of the world .
travelers will enjoy the country 's abundant fauna and flora and spectacular scenery consisting of huge glaciers , fjords , waterfalls , blue lakes and numerous national parks where trekking is a very popular activity amongst tourists .
soaring high coniferous forests and flower meadows welcome the trekker .
ajmer is connected with bus from all places like jaipur , agra , aligarh , abu road , bikaner , bharatpur , barmer , haridwar , chittorgarh , jodhpur , jaisalmer and nagaur .
the museum is open from 10 am to 5 pm every day except friday .
a tour to lakkidi would enable a traveler to earmark the stereotypical characteristics which , mythical kerala is known for i.e. sleepy backwaters , rain fed tropical forests and the tranquil murmurings of rain dripping woods .
channapatana is 60 km from bangalore. stop at lacquerware crafts complex here for these beautiful products .
for a kick , it s mahua liquor , distilled from dried mahua flowers .
gradually this demographic shift was to change the character of the city altogether .
the chinese fishing nets are huge cantilevered fishing nets along the backwaters are the legacy of the traders from the court of kublai khan .
according to tang dynasty records , a monk had witnessed onsite a vision of thousand buddhas under showers of golden rays .
karakoram is bounded by shhyok river in the east and karamber , ishkuman and gilgit rivers in the west in the north-east it is bounded by shaksgam river and in the south-west by shyok and the indus rivers .
tourists from india and abroad come to mysore to see the various tourist attractions and witness the special programmes arranged during the 10-day festival and in particular the last day s dasara procession .
khajuraho will enthrall you with the craftsmanship of its world famous carvings , while the ancient paintings of bheembetka will take you back to the prehistoric times .
tours to manali in himachal pradesh opens up new vistas of nature seeking before us with all its resplendent glory .
we are also great hosts and believe that the guest is god , so we will do our utmost to make sure they are happy and contented .
because of its unusual geography , chile has a hugely varied climate ranging from the world 's driest desert in the north , through a mediterranean climate in the centre , to a snow-prone alpine climate in the south .
kenwood house with its outdoor summer concerts and fine collection of art is worth a visit as is the nearby spaniards inn .
a healthy budget in punjab is about $ 35 a day that will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions .
there s no television , no phones and no recreation facilities at all you ll feel deliciously cut off from the rest of the world .
now the capital of one of the most fascinating states of india , kerala , thiruvananthapuram is an important entry point into india with communication links to maldives , sri lanka and many countries to the west of arabian sea .
pick a puan , the traditional mizo shawl , from the colourful local market here .
you ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many indians believe that curiosity conveys concern .
cellular jail , located at port blair , stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters , who were incarcerated in this jail .
the diwanekhas entirely unique in its concept is a tall vaulted room with an intricately carved central pillar and capital supporting a platform that once held the emperor 's throne .
we are very keen to promote unexplored tourist destinations in the state , and have announced special programmes in tourism policy to explore places hidden in deep forests , places that still remained untouched .
try ubadya at kamat s ni wadi , a garden restaurant at the kamat s resort in silvassa .
while the mountaineering season tends to be concentrated around the april-november period , a number of climbs are also attempted in winter ( december-march ) which , though much colder , allows for clearer climbing days .
when the backwaters of the arabian sea and the streams descending from the ghats caused the separation of this village from the mainland and landlocked the harbors , cochin became one of the safest ports on india 's southwestern coast .
in 1193 a.d , the afghan mohammad ghori conquered ajmer and converted a sanskrit school into a mosque by adding a seven arched wall in front of the pillared hall in just two and a half days .
a journey through daman reveals a vista so unspoilt that it is unbelievable ; as if belonging to some story you heard in childhood any minute you would expect it to vanish without a trace .
ikat weaves from orissa are classic and enduring fabric art ; the colours , weaves , dyes , and motifs are perhaps the most beautiful of all indian textiles .
when hyderabad s first exclusive nightclub threw open its doors and invited party - goers into its sparkling two-storeyed pulsating space , the nightlife in the city underwent something of a transformation .
the bilaspur dam height is 225 meter and that dam is highest in the world .
between 1783 and 1785 , the georgia assembly rotated between savannah and augusta , and the governor divided his official residence between the two cities .
darjeeling and sikkim also have some trekking routes .
spain , which had become the wealthiest european nation during the 16th century , saw its wealth decline during the 17th century .
shopaholics will find plenty to intrigue in the central market , greenwich 's answer to petticoat lane , with an emphasis on vintage clothing .
jakarta 's cultural richness and dynamic growth contribute significantly to its growing importance as one of the world 's leading capital cities .
close to the fort complex , jaswant thada the 19th century cenotaph was built in white marble , in commemoration of maharaja jaswant singh ii .
for centuries the people of the valley had been suffering from the recurring curse of famines and floods .
during your tours to the historical monuments in ajmer , india you must visit the jama al-tamish that is popularly known as dhai din-ka-jhonpra. .
boats to the sangam , used by pilgrims and tourists alike , can be rented at the ghat immediately east of the fort .
both these architectural marvels figure on the world heritage list .
lavi festival is famous for its chinese handcrafted jewellery , carpets , wool , shawls , dry fruits and cahumkhi horses brought for sale .
it was only in 1912 that kolkata ceased to be the capital when it was shifted to lutyen 's delhi .
check with your travel agent , or enquire about homestay options in the tourist information centre at kohima or dimapur .
you ll find a staggering variety of leather goods in kanpur .
a visit to gwalior is not complete until you sample th gajak , a seasame coated sweets , mixed with ghee and flavoured with cardamom .
the first european known to have visited the region was the spanish explorer francisco de coronado , during his search for quivira , a fabled kingdom of riches , in 1541 .
organised by u . p . tourism and held as an annual event at shilpgram , literally next door to the taj mahal , the taj mahotsav is indeed a fitting tribute to the legendary skills of master craftsman and other exponents of art , music and cuisine .
kentucky chose to be known as a commonwealth , meaning government based on the common consent of the people and dating to the time of oliver cromwell s england .
when the address you re heading to is by the sea , you know you ve booked the right place .
laad bazaar is also the heart of hyderabad s pearl trade , but use your discretion and don t forget to bargain .
however , manmad , 113km northwest of aurangabad is the closest junction for major trains from across the country .
in nepal banks are open between 10 : 00 a.m. to 2 : 30 p m. from sunday to thursday and between 10 : 00 a.m. to 2 : 30 p m. on fridays while they are closed on saturdays and other holidays .
ajanta finished caves have a central doorway embellished with guardians , flying figures , maidens clutching trees and also images of the buddha and ganas , or dwarfs , with garlands .
andhra pradesh , once a part of the mauryan empire during the reign of ashoka , became an important buddhist centre .
the principal crop of this area is rice , and other important crops include maize , millets , wheat , pulses , potato , sugarcane and oilseeds .
though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports , hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as pune , delhi , chandigarh , shimla , mumbai , devlali , bangalore and kalaheti .
emperor qin shihuang succeeded in his effort to have the walls joined together to fend off the invasions from the huns in the north after the unification of china .
the world 's largest earth-filled dam on one of the world 's most important rivers - the indus - is 103 km from islamabad .
the descendants of one sabarna roy choudhary inhabiting barisha , a small suburb in this honeymoon destination in india sold off kolkata to east india company for a meager quantum of 1 , 200 rs and since then it remained india 's capital .
lucknow , agra and benares have exchange bureaus where you can exchange money ; most main city branches of indian banks will exchange money and cash traveler s cheques .
taragarh palace welcomheritage resort is set in a wonderfully landscape garden in the beautiful valley of kangra .
one can also stay in the golden temple complex .
but there is little of such freedom for bolivians , many of whom count for some of the poorest people in latin america .
khimsar is located on the route between jodhpur and bikaner .
allahabad has been rich in numerous victorian and georgian buildings made in synthesis with indian architectural traditions .
the heritage festival was celebrated for the first time last year in october , with the aim of promoting the city s unique gifts of modern heritage - something that has put chandigarh on the tentative list of unesco s world heritage walk along the capital complex in sector 1 , highlighting le corbrsier s wonderful design and architecture .
since then it has been home for many members of the royal family , including edward vii and alexandria , when they were prince and princess of wales .
ambawatta is no longer the hub of designer stores but the action now seems to have moved to the cresscent ( near qutub ) , garden of the five sense ( off saket ) , and lodhi colony .
a sign posted walk runs along the path of the wall between these two locations .
most of these temples are magnificent examples of indian art and architecture .
a historic marvel , ajanta s history goes back more then two hundred years ago around 2nd century bc , when followers of gautama buddha retired here to a lonely precipice .
haridwar in uttaranchal , india is one of the four main hindu pilgrimage destinations in india. some of the important temples in haridwar , india that you may visit during your temple tours to the region are mansa devi temple , pawan dham temple , parmeshwar mahadev temple , chanda devi and lal mata temple .
brazil 's origins - the indians with their reed flutes , the portuguese with their singers and viola players , and the africans with their many thrilling rhythms - make it a musical country .
ships visited its port from malacca , china , vietnam , india , arab , portugal and netherlands. at its peek , it was almost as important as amsterdam .
pakistani liaison officer would accompany all mountaineering expeditions .
accessible only by boat , hat tham phra nang , this stunning , pristine beach has fine-grained white sand and crystalline waters as well as magnificent jagged karsts .
spend some time feasting your eyes on the shivalik ranges , doon valley , dakpather and asan barrage .
the kamakhya devi temple is situated on top of the neelachala parvat that is popularly known as kamagiri .
the burmese conquered the lanna kingdom in 1556 ending the dynasty founded by king meng rai that lasted over 250 years .
the island palace-jal mahal built by sawai madho singh as a pleasure spot at the centre of the man sagar lake , and the kanak vrindavan complex of temples and gardens recently renovated to its pristine glory .
the great wall of china , this legend has been spread widely through textbooks , folk songs and traditional operas .
other attractions worth a visit in shimla are lakkar bazaar , which is renowned for its local , himachali souvenirs and it is next door to the ridge , which is another cornucopia of lush green forestry and plantations .
cochin is a sultry town with a populated coastline while four hours drive from this steamy place are the verdant and lush green tea plantations of munnar with a cool breeze , ideally suited to the temper of honeymooners in india .
the pillar was brought from the buddhist site of kausambi by emperor akbar and has the edicts of emperor ashoka inscribed on it .
the snake park will interest of visitors of all ages .
designed by inigo jones for king james i ( 1603-25 ) and completed in 1622 , the banqueting house was originally built for occasions of state , plays and masques .
patna museum houses about 57 , 000 items of archeological importance and also has a collection of 22 , 000 old coins .
the forbidden city , now known as the palace museum , it is to the north of tiananmen square .
orissa version of tie-and-dye , ikat is one of the most popular and internationally well-known handicrafts of this state .
the ghost of one of its former incumbents haunts the building , although he seems to be tiring of his earthly pursuits , as recent reports suggest the figure is getting fainter as the years pass .
in jammu , the winter capital of the state , the serenity of patnitop spells magic and the shrine of vaishno devi attracts millions each year .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor .
all visitors to india are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months .
the building is crowned with a dome shaped like an inverted lotus .
the gajner wildlife sanctuary is 32 kms away from the bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds .
nathmalji-ki-haveli , one very interesting fact about this haveli is that its two sides were carved by two brothers .
most of the tourist spots in chhattisgarh are waiting to be explored .
leading designer wendell rodericks also retails here at casa goa .
if road side is not your style , then another popular hang out is the jetty the jetty rolls are also another hit with locals , more or less like kathi rolls , these come with meat or veggies rolled up in rotis .
other europeans may have reached florida earlier , but no firm evidence of such achievement has been found .
the grand canyon state or copper state , arizona takes its name from the indian word arizonac , meaning `` little spring `` or `` young spring .
it houses a variety of indian snakes and reptiles which can be viewed from close quarters .
for instance , the jahangiri palace built by akbar is a good blend of islamic ( persian ) and different local hindu styles .
the distance between these two gates is 960 meters , while the distance between the gates in the east and west walls is 750 meters .
the world famous dal lake and the mughal gardens , the royal springs golf course in srinagar , an unparalleled setting for the game , is a must-visit. .
during your tours to the temples of tamil nadu , india you may visit rameswaram that is a tiny island that is located at a distance of 160 kilometers from madurai in tamil nadu , india .
as the region 's great agricultural potential became apparent , many easterners began arriving via the new erie canal and the great lakes after 1825 , settling in the milwaukee area and along waterways .
a flower show along with an exhibition of rare plant species is held every year in the month of may at botanical garden .
surrounded by tea , coffee and vanilla plantations , explore the many walking trails leading into the hills around .
found in the 13th century , sukhothai ( literally means dawn of happiness ) was the first truly independent thai kingdom , which enjoyed a golden age under king ramkhamhaeng , credited with creating the thai alphabet .
the end of this first thai kingdom occurred in 1365 when it became a vassal state of ayutthaya , a young and rising power to the south .
locals usually dwell in groups of houses , speak their own dialects and practice their traditionally handed down cultures .
a former capital of the srivijaya empire , the province covers an area of approximately 12 , 891 square kilometers .
add to that an amazing array of flora and fauna , in a unique habitat with glaciers , high altitude meadows and subtropical forests .
the jungle lodge overlooks the river , teeming with carp , catfish ad famously , the mahaseer .
acquired by u .s . : present iowa was part of the louisiana purchase , the vast wilderness president thomas jefferson bought from france .
some of the interesting places that you may visit during your temple tours to uttaranchal are the sidh peeths .
kerala shares its western border with the arabian sea .
one of the most challenging motor rallies is the himalayan car rally .
sunflower state , cyclone state ( lots of tornadoes ) , jayhawk state , kansas ( french ) was named after the dakota sioux indian word kanze , which means 'south wind ' or ' people of the south wind .
at 8 700 feet above sea level , malam jabba ski resort stands on top of a mountain of the hindukush range , north east of saidu sharif .
in a buzzing atmosphere , you can find a great variety at more reasonable prices than the emporia .
founded by rukmini devi arundale in 1936 , the institution is devoted to the revival of traditional dance , textile designing , and weaving which are taught in naturally harmonious environs .
animals found in the thick forests of uttar pradesh include the endangered royal bengal tiger , panther , snow leopard , jackals , hyenas , sambhar , cheetal , musk deer , chinkara , nilgai , brown bear , mountain goat and elephants .
rainwear is a must if you are visiting between june and september .
one of the largest open air markets in the country , lewduh in shillong is quite an amazing experience for even the most reluctant of shoppers .
mario de andrade , the great authority on national folklore , has classified these dance dramas into four principal groups : reisados , chegancas , pastoris , and ranchos .
ko kra has some of the best coral in thailand , but no less spectacular are the golden sands of ko mak and the bays of ko ngarm .
at the sangam , the waters of the ganges and the yamuna can be distinctly seen to merge into one .
what used to be the favorite summer getaway of tipu sultan is now a popular picnic spot with its awesome fort , sprawling lawns and two ancient temples .
in spite of this entire karkota rule on the whole has been considered as the glorious and remarkable periods of ancient kashmir .
the best place to stay in srinagar would be the grand palace - overlooking the dal and the mountains behind , its location is unique .
indian narain kartikeyan has already made a name for himself in the high speed world of motor racing .
at the outbreak of the civil war , louisiana became an independent republic for six weeks before joining the confederacy .
this ancient temple was constructed in the 18th century .
it was here that he sojourned during the rule of maharaja birchandra manikya .
sheermal milk bread is a kind of roti that was first made in lucknow by a cook called muhammaden .
khasi are great blacksmiths , and also known for their foldable kitchen knives , which are razor-sharp , very handy , and simply last forever .
take a dekko at the red brick gothic clock tower .
the gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh , which symbolizes the gardens of paradise in islam .
the first permanent european settlement in alabama was founded by the french at fort louis de la mobile in 1702 and was the french louisiana capital until it was moved from mobile west to biloxi in 1720 .
after his death in 1707 , the city was taken over by the nizam of hyderabad who retained control till it was merged with maharashtra in 1956 .
pattadakal is also an important site for the study of the development of temple architecture in south .
the people removed both the silt and stones when the great engineer threw plenty of gold and silver coins into the river at many places .
opened in 1943 replacing a former pontoon bridge , it is today one of the busiest bridges in the world .
the most ancient of the holy abodes is the vimal vashi temple , which is dedicated to the first tirthankar , constructed by vimal shah , a gujrati merchant .
these jain temples are famous for their architectural style , intricately carved and ornamented walls , ceilings , pillars , panels and doorways .
treat yourself to a hearty breakfast of bacon and sausages , accompanied by steaming lemon tea , on the rooftop at keventer s .
akbars sleeping chambers , the khwabgah ( house of dreams ) had water channels to cool the air .
central sulawesi is one of regional in indonesia that has compatible solidarity between natural beauties , cultural properties and long history .
general dyer , who was charged to enforce law and order in the region , marched up to the ground with his troops and blocked the narrow entrance .
in the deep recesses of simlipal forests , forest rest house may not offer five star luxuries , but its location more than makes up for it .
this characteristic is exemplified by the long esplanade called the marina and which is lined by impressive buildings which remind the casual visitor of the long and inseparable association the city has had with the british .
space flight , dinosaurs alive , dynamotion , life in water , a world of insects and reptiles , walkthrough aviary , butterfly corner , convention centre , four seminar halls , mini auditorium , musical fountain and many others .
located at one of the crossroads of the world , singapore 's strategic position has helped it grow into a major centre for trade , communications and tourism .
purwar museum , wonderful personal collection is housed in a lovely haveli and is the work of a retired doctor mr. purwar .
the ruler does not levy a tax on the people who travel along the road together , leading their oxen on the way to trade and riding their horses on the way to sell .
jakarta has preserved its past and is developing for the future .
by 1856 , each of the five civilized tribes established territorial boundaries in the frontier .
designed by renowed architect charles correa , this resort offers both accommodation and water sport facilities .
with ruojing river flowing through , zhang house is a dapper and graceful residential house ; has a tranquil courtyard and pond. deep halls all represent the life of the quondam owner .
nalanda is located 90 kms from patna lies the ruins of one of the most famous centers of learning in the ancient world , nalanda university , built in the 5th century bc .
accommodation in cozy nook includes thatched huts , tree houses , and trendy cottages with quirky bathrooms .
the site india travel destinations offers you details of online reservation for tours to historical monuments in mandu in madhya pradesh , india .
it symbolizes the ancient community of the people who fled the massacre of king siriboonsarn of vientiane and came to settle in nong bua lam phu province in 1779 during the reign of king thonburi .
there are four important dilwara temples at mount abu and these are the luna vashi temple , vimal vashi temple , parshvanath temple and the adinath temple .
most hotels offer in-room international direct dial ( idd ) telephone services .
there is nothing to beat bengal s cotton saris , crisp and so elegant .
the restaurant serves nine cuisine ( hence the name including vietnamese , middle eastern and indonesian .
if you go to the front gate between 3pm and 4pm , you may get an entry pass .
from sheesh mahal you can see palaces , cenotaphs , and the spires of the ramrajya and cahturbhuj temple .
the british tried to suppress this incident , but it created a furor in the entire nation .
tipu 's drop , a 600-metre high cliff offers a fantastic view of the plains down below .
indira gandhi , the daughter of jawaharlal nehru and later prime minister of india was born here .
don t go out to sea if the weather is threatening to turn stormy for windsurfing .
if in the opinion of the leader/physician/surgeon the sickness / injury is likely to aggravate if the l. o. / m . g is transported by porters / jeep to the nearest hospital then the deputy commissioner of the area shall be contacted to arrange for a helicopter for evacuation of liaison officer / mountain guide .
the enchanting beauty of kashmir is evident in its lofty mountain ranges , lush green meadows , fascinating glaciers and tranquil waterbodies .
indian nationals need no permission for trekking in any area , outside the inner line .
the construction work began in january 1887 and was finished on march 31 , 1889 .
the calmness of place provides a soothing effect to the tired tourists .
the main shopping areas are cg road , law garden and relief road and ashram road where you could visit any of the branches of the khadi gramodyog emporium , gurjari emporium ( ashram road ) , hastkala ( relief road ) , kapasi handicraft emporium ( cg road ) , saurashtra emporium ( ashram road ) , and bandhej ( mithakhali road .
these kings were great patrons of art and culture and mysore was the cultural capital of the south under the rule of the wodeyars .
on return to the district headquarters from the mountains , a l.o./m.g. shall lodge a complaint with the deputy commissioner , specifying therein , exact violation of the terms and conditions , or any other rule etc. he shall also send its copy to the ministry of tourism .
the new hard line adopted by the government was confirmed in may 2002 , when the right-winger alvaro uribe , who favours all-out war against the left-wing guerrillas , won a comfortable victory at the presidential election .
visitors may fix an appointment with the concerned authorities prior to the visit .
the same streak of creativity is noticeable in the beautiful handicrafts manipur make. such as the intricate bamboo products or the bright shawls and phaneks ( sarong ) .
i never leave without some of keventer s chocolates .
motel is equipped with all mod cons , but the peace and the quite is broken only by the roar of the dhuandhar falls , a short distance away .
trango towers is the highest granite tower and considered to be the finest rock pinnacle in the world .
this nectar comes from the miles and miles of orange orchards in meghalaya , and you get to take away this little bit heaven from cherraprnjee and mawsynram , the best places to buy orange honey in the state .
in toto , around 82 temples were constructed out of which only 22 have been rescued out of the palour of extinction by the effort of captain t .s . burt , a british engineer who discovered them in 1838 .
the chequered history of allahabad with its religious , cultural and historical ethos also gave rise to several renowned scholars , poets , writers , thinkers , statesmen and leaders .
bangalore is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
militants had rebelled against the rule of law and believed they were fighting to protect the interests of the original inhabitants of the state .
for thousands of years , the yellow river has been admiring by literary giants , artists , as well as by the common people .
if you want to buy directly from the artisans , visit the crafts village to pick up bamboo and cane products , shawls , wood carving , and fascinating wooden toys. which is a new industry .
their poor performance led to their removal .
every saturday a farmer 's market takes place by the pond with local produce being sold direct from the producers ; here you 'll find everything from home baked cakes to the finest cuts of beef and freshest vegetables .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to jammu and kashmir , india .
average summer temperatures are usually from 74 to 80 . winter averages range from below 34 in the north to more than 38 in the south .
come to heranca goesa for fantastic portuguese goan cuisine at amazingly affordable prices .
mahaprasad , jagannath temple , if over 400 cooks prepare something everyday , it has to be special .
some of the ancient temples that you may visit during your temple tours to varanasi in uttar pradesh , india are the kashi-vishwanath temple , durga temple , annapura bhavani , laat bhairava and the sankata devi temple .
the best time to visit agra is between november and march .
the sanjay gandhi botanical garden is situated on the famous baily road and has numerous birds and animals .
changing money anywhere in india can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time .
stephen h. long conducted a scientific expedition across the area in 1819 .
when troops tried to enter the complex , many were mowed down by bullets .
west sumatra lakes include : maninjau ( 99.5 km2 ) , singkarak ( 130.1 km2 ) , diatas ( 31.5 km2 ) , dibawah ( 14.0 km2 ) , talang ( 5.0 km2 .
a million people from every corner of india stream across the massive howrah bridge , swarm around the hooghly river , flock along the busy avenues , through its narrow lanes .
ever since a huge fair is held at this location every year on the festival of shivratri .
the tank in the centre , fed by natural springs , is said to have supplied charnock with drinking water , historical buildings surround the square .
saraswati festival is celebrated throughout india but takes on special significance in kerala .
the history of aurangabad can be traced back to 1610 , when the former abyssinian slave and then prime minister of the muslim kingdom of ahmednagar , malik ambar establishment a city on the site of an old village called khirki .
a visitor to the museum will understand much about the way wars were fought in this part of the world and the type of firearms that were used to conquer nepal and later to protect it from the british raj .
started as a joint venture between the railway and mtdc , deccan odyssey train ride is the most luxurious way to explore some of the best location in maharashtra .
from april 3 , 1860 to october 24 , 1861 , pony express riders carried their mail across the area .
varkala beach ( 54 km from thiruvananthapram ) , is a sea lover 's favourite for the enchanting seclusion on offer .
the museums situated in the heart of the city at egmore were founded in 1857 .
cozy nook resort has a communal chill out areas , where you can play chess , read a book or listen to music .
the traveler finds the mogao caves , a shrine of buddhist art treasures , 25 km ( 15.5miles ) from downtown dunhuang on the eastern slope of mingsha shan ( mount echoing sand .
lying at the center of beijing , the forbidden city , called gu gong in chinese , was the imperial palace during the ming and qing dynasties .
a magnificent royal palace and the hunting lodge built by maharaja vinay singh in 1845 a . d . for his queen shila stands overlooking the lake .
secunderabad , which is part of hyderabad , originally developed around a british cantonment , set up in 1798 .
if you are more interested in exploring the national park , it is better to aim for drier seasons in order to ensure access to the majority of trails .
the first european to see virginia may have been john cabot , who reached the north american coast for england in 1497 and may have explored it the next year .
fishing vessels were adapted to become tourist boats and swimmers and sunbathers from various parts of the world frequented the quiet powdery golden beaches .
in 1931 nine black youths ( scottsboro boys ) are arrested in paint rock and jailed in scottsboro , the jackson county seat .
bangana-lathian-piplu attract tourist during winter season especially , when they propose to visit other religious places like jogi ponga and naina deviji .
tv courts of solo embody the noble value that the javanese attach to grace and refinement , with majestic ceremonies and royal festivals still held with great pomp and circumstance .
the colorful dresses of the kinnauri women and their sweet folk songs make the valley all the more bright and cheerful .
the cathedrals of the baltoro with their great knife-edge ridges , the sky cleaving monoliths of the trango towers and most beautiful of all - the peak of perfection - paiyu , ( 6 , 600 metres ) first climbed by a pakistani expedition in 1977 .
lewis and clark followed the missouri river through north dakota in 1804-06. .
home to the largest brackish water lake in india apart from lush , serene wildlife sanctuaries , orissa is a natural lover s paradise .
throughout the valley , he built very fine and massive temples , out of which the world famous sun temple ( martand ) built on mattan karewa , reminds us about the grandeur and splendor of the times when their builder ruled the state .
the coffee and cardamom plantations abound in large numbers in this hill station in india and coupled with its expansive grassy lands it qualifies as a perfect picture postcard beauty only that it deserves a lot more attention on the national and international scene as a destination .
all official transactions and meetings are held in lucknow , the administrative capital while kanpur is an important industrial and commercial centre .
during winter , heavy snow separate the valleys from the rest of the world for six months while in the summer , temperatures over 100 degrees are common .
the bush administration inherited ' plan colombia ' after victory at the us november 2000 poll and endorsed the plan with some modifications .
only a third of the 2 , 500 , 000 rivets used in the construction of the tower were inserted directly on site .
try the soup made of nettles , bamboo shoots and mushrooms or go for soucha , a nettle dish , in which the leaves are served with minced meat .
excitement abounds in the origin , vicissitude and nature of the great wall of the qin , han , and ming dynasties .
a huge dome , rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the taj mahal .
the city thrived commercially and had strong economic ties with their main ally , ptolemy i soter of egypt .
there are direct international flights from muscat , singapore and sharjah , and indirect connections via mumbai from new york , london , paris and the middle east .
the esplanade 's acclaimed acoustics system has impressed many international artistes and audiences .
daily opening hours of sha counters at terminal 1east counter : 1000 hrs 2330 hrs west counter : 24 hours .
the perfect time to go there , however , is mid january when the international kite festival takes place , and enthusiasts come from all over the world to test their skills .
north of ko pha-ngan is ko tao , renowned for its excellent coral reefs .
contact the conservator of forests in agartala for booking accommodation in the forest bungalow here , which has well kept gardens and provides reasonably good food .
the length of the kingdom of nepal is 885 kilometres east-west and its breadth varies from 145-241 kilometers north-south. .
agartala is renowned for its excellent hand woven cotton fabrics ; indeed weaving is a widespread , household occupation among the tribal people .
there are 2 different paths inside the cave ; on the left lies the shortcut to the back of the cave where the sunlight can shine through , and on the right is a path to a natural hall believed to have been a shelter for prehistoric people .
dedicated to the british soldiers who fell in the sindh and afghan campaigns of 1838 and 1843 , this afghan church also known as st . john 's church was built in 1847 .
the wise thing to do is to hire a car with a driver if you want to get the many tourist spots within and outside the city .
buses usually travel in convoys with armed escorts .
most of the handicrafts available , pots and curios are conveniently sized and make for great gifts .
gaumukh temple is dedicated to lord rama , this small temple is situated 4 kms south of mount abu , and derived its name from a natural spring flowing through the mouth of a marble cow .
it is an ideal place to see a large variety of aqua-fauna at close quarters .
tipu sultan preserved the ganesha temple as a testament to his religious tolerance .
the santhome cathedral was built by the portuguese between the 14th and the 15 century ad and derived its name after st. thomas .
jaipur 's regal heritage is evident in its architecture and culture .
chennai is well connected to delhi , bangalore , mumbai , and hyderabad and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
so walk in and rediscover tourself at this exclusive spa , an experience you woll not forget in a hurry .
the city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the sabarmati river .
when a peace agreement was reached in 304 bc , the antagonids lifted the siege , leaving a wealth of military equipment behind .
the national maritime museum is home to the world 's largest maritime historical reference library , as well as a wealth of nautical exhibits and artifacts .
nanking is a nondescript restaurant which initiated hyderabadis to chinese and cuisine and continues to indulge them with its conventional yet irresistible fare .
bidar , a town in north karnataka , is a centre for a unique style of engraving .
a little further along is the dove , a pub close to the hearts of locals and londoners ; it was here that the traditional song rule britannia was composed by thomas arne in the 18th century .
at one point the track climbs to 130 meters after a journey of 1.4 kilometers .
for those in search of peace and tranquility , himachal s buddhist soul is alive in places like dharamshala and spiti .
dedicated to khusrau , the rebel son of emperor jahangir , the garden holds his mausoleum .
it is believed that kalidasa the 4th century sanskrit poet and play wright choose the setting for its masterpiece `` abhigyana shakuntalam `` in nag paharthe snake s forest heritage .
the stately tombs of the qutub shahi rulers lie just outside the outer wall of the golconda fort .
the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the krishnarajasagar dam are a must see for visitors , its fine terraced lawns and swirling fountains are illuminated over the weekend to give it a fairy tale quality .
dilli haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts , food and cultural activities in india .
there are also ups and downs in the artistic quality over the centuries , depending on the fortunes of buddhism with available art patronage .
demand for tickets to buckingham palace is high .
khao phanom bencha national park has pristine , lush forest on its highest peaks .
crossing the two crisscross rivers ( yinzi creek and nabeishi river ) and connecting at the middle , twin bridges look like a chinese old-style chinese key .
parasailing is a sport , which is a combination of skydiving and para gliding both being high on adrenaline sports , rolled in to one .
fast on old favorites like aloo , gobhi , paneer and palak paranthas , but to experience the parantha at its most elevated try unusual innovations like the kaju badam parantha , stuffed with dry fruits .
designs can vary from sirdar with hand embossed borders in honey-beige , ivory and soft green all the way to 18th century designs with short clippings of the yarn around the contours to give it the look of a swculpture .
the south pier was rigged anew in 1983 with a small electrically driven elevator by otis to take customers up to the jules verne restaurant .
out of the fort there is the church of our lady of remedios , completed in 1607 , and one of the oldest churches in india .
puran singh ka dhaba is near the main bus stand in ambala ; try the keema and the tandoori paranthas .
all help recreate a visual delight reminiscent of the golden era of the mughal darbars .
the tharpa choling monastery has a library of tibetan manuscripts and thankas which can be visited .
legend has it that the mughal emperor , akbar came here to the saint in the 16th century in quest of a boon for an heir and the saint obliged .
south carolina , officially separated from north carolina in 1729 , was the scene of extensive military action during the revolution and again during the civil war .
the raghunath temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord rama .
the kishanpur sanctuary located about 30 km from dudhwa , is the other constituent of the reserve .
its success is unquestionable , as is its popularity with tourists and londoners alike .
the government museum located at ooty boasts of tribal handicrafts , regional ecological details peppered with attractive handicrafts of tamil nadu .
hill palace museum has an interesting collection of paintings , antique temple carvings and other royal artifacts .
nepal-a country with a long historic tradition is an amalgamation of a number of medieval principalities .
hat rai le ( rai le beach ) beach is generally divided into two sections , east and west .
indeed , the market now draws in 100 , 000 every weekend and sells virtually anything that can be placed on a market stall .
marlin , sailfish , tuna , huge garoupa and every kind of shark imaginable are a boat ride from shore .
birla mandir is a splendid temple built entirely out of white marble .
khajuraho as a major honeymoon destination in india is a collection of sculpture and wall murals , which are very explicit in nature .
early morning tea on the verandah , looking out onto the gorge below , will make your trip entirely worth it .
the main markets of udaipur are palace road , hathi pol , bada bazaar , bapu bazaar and chetak circle. rajasthali , is the approved emporium of the rajasthan government .
another alcoholic drink is sulfi , a milky drink made from the fermented sap of the sago palm tree .
the setting at the mango tree is the backyard of a traditional home , under a massive mango tree with a swing .
it is nestled in the outer inclines of dhaulandhar range .
much of nilgiri hills covers a couple of states and tamil nadu being very prominent among them .
the best time to visit ajmer is either in the winter months from november to march or more specifically during the annual urs of moinuddin chisti in may or in november at the time of the pushkar fair .
the khumbu region of nepal is one of the best-known treks in the world .
vizag , as it is commonly known , is the commercial and industrial heart of northeastern andhra pradesh .
pick up some traditional himachal woolen caps , which , by the way , are de rigeur in paris right now .
kerala is also a meeting pot of diverse culture and communities. so a holiday in kerala enriches not just your body and mind but your very soul .
in the midst of all the excitement , revelers hold on top the most important accessory during the navaratri , the dandiya the dandiya rasa is a more popular navaratri dance from than the garba , and it is easy to see why .
lovely thick shawls are available everywhere , especially in shimla , and make the perfect wrap for chilly winters .
connected with the rest of java by good motor roads and train services , there are also air services between surabaya and other major cities in the country including bali which is only half an hour 's flight a way .
some indians migrated `` voluntarily . `` some were captured and sent west under military guard ; and others escaped into the everglades , where they made a life for themselves away from contact with whites .
if you are looking for cooking classes in the comfort of a singapore home , cookery magic is your choice .
situated in the compound of an old girls convent school , chijmes today is one of singapore s premier wine and dine destinations .
ajmer is a travel delight , bustling with activity and noise , sights and sound , it is a place that 's guaranteed to overwhelm the senses of any tourist .
the base was made of white marble , and the feet and ankle of the statue were first fixed .
with spicy masala mixes you can recreate the inimitable tastes and smells of goa in your own kitchen without spending hours at the mortar and pestle .
the architects who built the taj mahal made the canals and the waterworks in the garden , with the purpose of generating an upside down image of the taj , to gel with the divine inspiration .
in the case of the maekong river , the nature-based tourism potential particularly applies to northeast thailand , an area that the tat has identified as a priority for tourism development .
from fast food stalls selling ice creams and pizzas to great punjabi fare in dhabas and restaurants you get them all here .
the kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees .
use shopping as a way of exploring the city and understanding its people better - and pick up some great bargains along the way .
the huge , carved doors of the cabinet room are made of pure sandalwood .
colorfully dressed village folk add fun and gaiety to the event .
full of little hideaways , old and luxurious tea estate , and winding roads offering amazing view , darjeeling possesses a charm of its very own .
many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of lord buddha .
the presiding deity at the temple is called mansa devi and pilgrims worship the deity with coconuts , fruits , marigold garlands and incense sticks .
carry light woolens and rain protection no matter what the weather .
barnes high street leads from the pond to the river thames and is filled with small grocers , green grocers , bakers and butchers .
stone needed was quarried from fangshan , a suburb of beijing .
ganjam s commitment , to put it simply and succinctly , is to both excellence and exclusivity which is reflected in their designs , which take current international trends and adapt them to a uniquely indian context .
the historical significance of this temple lies in the fact that the 23rd jain tirthankara achieved nirvana here .
there was even talk of a bridge with a span wide enough to cross the english channel .
the centerpiece of this hall is the carved throne pillar , which supports a circular platform connected to the edges by four bridges .
the route to simla pass is along a heavy blanket of snow , and from here , the beautiful chhota kaikash peak is perennially in view .
similarly , because of forced halts on bad weather days a party shall pay to a porter full daily wages and rations or rations money in lieu thereof .
periods of democratic government alternated with dictatorships .
in the winters , temperatures may touch a low of 5 celsius .
the economy of the city depends on several industries including handicraft , textiles & some metal based industries .
for the slightly more adventurous , kayaking is appealing as it enables innovation on the river by a solitary oarsman of two , seated in tandem , the degree of difficulty would depend on the river radiant and its rapids .
shop for the clothes , shoes , watches and more take a break at one of the many small eateries that surrounds this area .
buy at mrignayani or avanti emporia in new market , bhopal or try ada bazaar in indore , where you get lovely lac bangles .
known as the oregon trail , it took thousands during the 1840s to the fertile willamette valley , where wheat , fruits , and vegetables thrived .
they placed clay statues in front of the cave walls , carved relief murals as backdrops , and painted the sidewalls and ceilings with art decors .
ask anyone in kolkatka where the sir stuart hogg market is and he might give you a baffled look , but ask him about new market and he ll happily point you in the right direction .
udaipur is situated in the southern part of rajasthan and surrounded by the aravalli range .
as a result of this operation , the prime minister mrs. indira gandhi , who had ordered the army action , was assassinated by her own bodyguards .
with the settlement of the eastern section by northern european and slavic groups , most parts of the state were occupied and the population reached 548 , 889 in 1920 .
the fortnight long extravaganza , held in december-january , illustrates the cultural diversity of the andamans .
dum aloo ( made without onion or garlic , the true kashmiri way ) , chaman ( paneer ) dishes , especially with methi , nadru ( lotusroot ) and haak , kashmiri spinach .
the most spectacular monument is prasat phanom rung in buri ram , a towering structure seated on top of an extinct volcano , which took over 17 years to restore .
later on , when the control of the deccan kingdoms passed into the hands of the mughals , the mughal emperor aurangzeb renamed the city aurangabad when he made it the base of his campaigns into the deccan .
opposite the museum , maratha s place provides for an easy going , laidback atmosphere with excellent home cooking on offer .
the social fabric in ajmer is a truly secular one with both hindus and muslims cutting across religious divides to revere its holy land .
taj is one of the wonders of the world .
laxminath temple is located in a centre of the fort ; the less ornate hindu temple in the complex features an interesting dome that exhibits fine paintings .
india travel destinations provides opportunities to undertake the daring - do sport of river rafting in india which is a much sought after adventure activity in the calendar of adventure tourism in india .
the oberoi cecil is the perfect place to stay at if you want to enjoy a winter in shimla .
tarbela dam swabi is the biggest hydel power station in pakistan having a capacity of generating 3 , 478 mw of electricity .
it is easily available and recommended highly .
at-sunrice is located at fort canning centre , fort canning park .
minnesota 's climate is classified as humid continental because normally there is a sufficient amount of precipitation to provide at least some surplus for runoff , and because minnesota 's temperature conditions are largely controlled by its location in the interior of the large landmass of north america .
dedicatory inscription of the lighthouse .
it has to be accepted that a participant to motorcycle safari has to be very well prepared for the conditions and climate while undertaking this part of adventure tourism in india .
it is said that the right foot of sati ( shivas consort ) fell here and a ` peeth was constructed .
occupied for almost 700 years , the caves of ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly .
her macabre collection of relics from the french revolution , alongside portraits of torturers , villains and murderers , proved irresistible to the visiting public .
this ancient temple has been constructed in the north indian nagara architectural style .
the sudh mahadev temple in kashmir , india is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to kashmir , india .
the imposing white edifice was consecrated in 1679 ad , and continues to be an important place of worship .
manipuris , simple and soft-spoken , make very good hosts. their hospitality will make you fall in love with manipur .
hotel nikko , bangla sahib road , is run by a japanese corporation , so you can expect unwavering courtesy and efficiency , and of course , a very modern and innovative use of space .
the kincaid act increased the size of the homesteads from 160 to 640 acres .
unfortunately the building is not open to the public .
almost next to the st. paul church there is the sao tome church , which now houses a fascinating little diu museum , populated by an array of old wooden statues of saintly ladies .
rahim near akbari gate in lucknow is the best in the city for all kinds of breads .
transit passengers who have a follow-on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport .
east java 's claim to fame in modern history is its vanguard role in the struggle for independence against colonial forces in 1945 .
apart from the jeep and elephant safaris into corbett park , you have a host of activities to choose from .
attempts were recently made to rebuild the temple , but only a few columns have been re-erected .
fly jet airways from mumbai to diu , there are more frequent flights to bhavnagar , which is three hours from diu by road .
the walls of the jain temple are adorned with colorful paintings depicting various incidents in the lives of the 24 tirthankaras of the jain religion .
when st paul visited ephesus to preach christianity in the first century ad , he was confronted by the artemis ' cult who had no plans to abandon their goddess .
with their heavy pallus , deep colors and intricately embroidery motifs , they are quite lovely .
from the tumultuous sea of puri and konark , rath yatra at puri the pilgrims wend their way to the jagannath temple and the exquisite sun temple .
to suppress these protests , the governor of the punjab province dwyer imposed a ban on public assemblies .
caught up in the vision of chandigarh as a modern city , people often overlook the great dhaba food that is available within the city .
as with trekking , mountaineering and other sports , river rafting too has been classified and graded in terms of degrees of difficulty .
the view from durpin dara monastery is breath-taking. .
get back in touch with both nature and spirituality amid the mountains and the monasteries .
this is not surprising because the region was an important centre of pallavan culture long before the british came here and the traces of which are to be found in the numerous old temple .
the site india travel destinations offers you details regarding tour packages for temple tours to the state of bihar in india .
while in jaunpur , also stop aat any of the several sweetmeat shops to feast on imarti , a delicious jalebi-like sweet .
in 1820 a nearby camp became a permanent army post called fort atkinson. the post was established to discourage british encroachment and to protect america s western frontier. bellevue , founded in 1823 , was the first permanent settlement .
the best season depends on what you are looking for ; if its wildlife you seek then the hot months from march to may are when animals flock to the watering holes , and hopefully to the ones close to your machan .
the spanish surrender mobile to american in 1813 then a year later , a failed british forces attack on fort bowyer ( mobile point ) abandons plans to capture mobile , a second attempt in 1815 succeeds .
in 1994 , the total population reached 4 , 265 , 900 people with its density amounted to 101 people per km2 .
on the other side is green park and past royal residences , lancaster house , marlborough house , spencer house and st james 's palace .
new ranchos were written every year and groups of dancers representing various districts of rio performed them .
this beautiful park at port blair has facilities like amusement rides , safe water sports , and nature trail around the lake , garden , restaurant and historic remains like japanese temple as well as a bunker .
the regencies and municipalities divided into district headed by camat and district divided into villages headed by lurah or kepala desa .
bangalore is well connected to delhi , mumba ? chennai , hyderabad and to almost all other cities in southern india by a network of super fast trains .
situated on the banks of the river yamuna , the taj mahal stands at the northern end of formal gardens .
brazil 's landscape is as diverse as the people who inhabit it .
st. francis church is considered to be india 's oldest european church .
the other important dilwara temple that you must visit during your temple tours to rajasthan , india is the luna vashi temple that is dedicated to the 22nd jain tirthankar shri neminathji .
with over 16 million acres , the navaho reservation is the nation s largest .
meanwhile , a third potent force emerged during the 1980s , in the form of organized drug traffickers ( known as cartels .
to buy khumbeu , try the state government and handloom emporium at ritz market , aizawl .
the 10 swiss tents and 36 cottages stand amid undulating greens and swishing palms .
of recent origin are the vintage car rallies in which some very rare , collector cars are not only displayed but also run in the rally .
a festival of art , craft , culture and celebrations , organized by u.p. tourism , it is held every year between the 18th - 27th february .
on makar sankranti ( 13/14/15 january ) every year , the city is at its colorful best when thousands and thousands of kites of every shape , size and color soar into the sky as it celebrates the international kite festival .
finding its origin in the small early 16th century harbor town of sunda kelapa , jakarta 's founding is thought to have taken place on june 22 , 1527 , when it was re-named jayakarta , meaning glorious victory by the conquering prince fatahillah from neighboring cirebon .
the malai tangri kebab and palak paneer here are especially recommended .
there is also a statue of emmeline pankhurst ( 1858-1928 ) , the british suffragette , whose efforts finally won women the right to vote .
palmetto state ( tree ) , swamp state , rice state , south carolina was originally named in honor of france 's charles ix and then in honor of england 's charles i and charles ii .
netarhat is situated 156 kms. from ranchi and is basically a hill station of bihar .
hope that these wide open spaces will still beckon the traveler , and that the tribal culture that thrives here will remain untouched by commercialism and crowds .
international foreign exchange providers have several branches in the city .
it s always wise to check updated visa requirements prior to travel .
mu ko phi phi national park covers a large area both onshore and offshore and. reservations for accommodations on the beach should be made in advance at the forestry department in bangkok .
the birla mandir stands on a hill overlooking the south end of hussain sagar .
finding authentic himachali food is as difficult as looking for the proverbial needle in a haystack .
allahabad today is an important city where history , culture and religion create a confluence much like the sacred rivers that cares this god-graced land .
also situated here are the high court , the government museum , the technology museum , the govt. aquarium and the jawaharlal bal bhavan .
interestingly , one of the temples , chausat yogini is rumored to be haunted in khajuraho , a chief honeymoon destination in india .
if you 're fired by the spirit of adventure , let the sparks in your heart fly in india , a land blessed with lofty snow clad , peaks , crystal glaciers , rolling meadows , jagged rock faces , verdant valleys , meandering rivers , cascading waterfalls , dense forests , and hospitable people , blessed with a rich culture a land perfect for mountaineering , trekking , and rock climbing .
sikkim with gangtok as its capital city is another of those hill stations in india which are more in demand for the sake of their religious significance that is the monastries , the giant gompas and the lamas , all belonging to the age of yore .
banks are open from 10 am 4. 30pm on weekdays , on saturdays working hours are between 10am to 1pm .
then you arrive at the great expanse of the maidan , the heart of calcutta .
if you have a taste for fine wines , spirits and cigars , the cavalry bar is sure to be a satisfying experience .
today sections of this city wall are still visible , mingling among the office blocks .
he was reputed to have a collection of some 50 , 000 manuscripts , which he would be read out from akbar was himself illiterate , but the manuscripts were very precious for him and he carried them around wherever he went .
hotel posada tauma is also a treat from the outside , right from the outside , right from the exposed masonry of the facade to the palm - lined gardens .
the place comes alive , during the kumbh mela and the ardh kumbh , attracting millions of devotees from all across the country .
in canoa quebrada you will find spectacular beaches surrounded by rolling dunes and picturesque rocks .
an abundance of colorful coral reefs and lovely cartoon fishes make these islands ideal for diving and snorkeling .
later , after the first war of independence in 1857 the british established a penal colony here and andamans and port blair , the capital , came to be a dreaded word .
a thrill a minute adventure sport where split second decisions can literally make or mar heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent .
the order included a bejeweled carpet from birmingham .
manali is also a gateway to lahaul and spiti .
the well known places of tourism are chowpathy beach , juhu beach , elephanta caves , good markets like crawford and chor bazaar are found here .
popular activities include sightseeing by canoe along the beachfront and paddling tours by inflatable canoes or kayaks of the coast and its mangrove forests , islands and semi-submerged caves .
take a couple of bottles of feni back home whether you want to gift them to your friends or enemies depend on your taste .
eco-tourism is more than a catch phrase for nature loving travel and recreation .
close by is a library in the ramakrishna ( vivekanandas guru ) kutir , which has a collection of books on religious philosophy .
a flaky treat ; gajak is made in the samll nearby district of morena , but sold in gwalior where people jostle for aplace at the counters of the shops that sells boxes of it .
spain claimed the area in 1706 , although no spanish settlements were established in colorado .
among all hill stations in india , leaving apart a few of the genre , mount abu is one hill station in india which is located in the middle of a land which is a rarified desert for all practical purposes .
the rajputs , under the leadership of sansar chand owned this region in 1773 ad , till the attack by maharaja ranjit singh in 1804 ad , which crushed the rajput power here .
mogao sculptors improvised where the rock surface did not work well under their chisels .
the british founded bengkulu in 1685. it is a university town and administrative centre .
as a honeymoon hotel in chennai , the chola sheraton is no mean in as a destination for honeymooners in india .
trekking means the act of traveling on foot to a maximum height of six thousand meters ( 6000 m ) with the purpose of sight-seeing and recreation at various natural and cultural sites in places where means of modern transport are either not available or are purposely not used .
there s nothing as delicious as a kesar kulfi delicately flavoured with saffron , sprinkled with pistas and served on a bed of faluda , sweet vermicelli .
during the vietnam war , ubon encountered expansive growth due to its proximity to an american air base .
the palaniandavar temple is located at vadapalani in tamil nadu , india .
sea canoeing adventures from phuket take small groups of two passengers on inflatable kayaks , accompanied by a support boat carrying food and equipment .
the nanital boathouse club exclusively holds the man agreement of yachting in nainital .
the roads are smooth four lane highways in some parts of the state and two lanes elsewhere , but all roads are well maintained and have motels , restaurants and gas stations at regular intervals .
sprawling over an area of two acres ; `` mangal dham `` is considered to be one of the most splendid temples in india .
it is impressively progressive in its political and administrative outlook .
this temple is dedicated to the hindu deity lord shiva .
the central chamber is octagonal , and in the centre is the tomb of the queen and to one side is the casket of the emperor .
there are some superb buildings with gothic and baroque facades ; even some with gujarati architectural elements reminiscent of the grand havelis ahmedabad , yet with their broad balconies , arches and porticos , so very mediterranean .
stop in at the food court for some delicious grub .
timings of the museum are as under : from 10 : 30 am to 3 pm , except on tuesdays and govt. holidays. from 10 : 30 am to 2 pm , on fridays .
it takes nearly six to eight hours to reach perfection and in the old days , special earthen pots were made in which the fish fitted snugly .
the province of phang-nga is located some 788 kilometres from bangkok. it covers an area of 4 , 170 square kilometres .
hispanics , who may be of any race , are 8 percent of the people .
nepal has a population of more than 18 million people made of different races living in different regions , with diverse culture , languages and dialects .
geographically , nakhon ratchasima borders on chiyaphum and khon kaen provinces in the north , buriram province in the east , chiyaphum and saraburi provinces in the west and nakhon nayok and prachin buri provinces in the south .
after 16thcenturies later , bangalore became an important fortress city under rulers hyder ali and tipu sultan .
the rajasthan tourism development corporation ( rtdc ) has converted a portion of lalgarh palace into a hotel .
the story of three cultural heroes : suiren-shi who taught the chinese to make fire by drilling wood , fu hsi who was the inventor of hunting , trapping and fishing and shennong-shi who invented agriculture , was spread , these three legendary individuals that began the development of civilization in the yellow river basin .
taking the most convenient form of transport in zhouzhuang , a gondola , we will present some of the breathtaking sights one by one .
rajasthan is the first choice for the travelers looking for heritage tour & travel in india .
`` here the white beaches on the edge of a meandering coastline have palm trees that sway to the rhythm of the sea .
rent a car , jeep , minibus or muv through a travel agent or tour operator they come with experienced drivers and that s a blessing as road traffic tends to be pretty scary with most roads and obstacle course of camels and holy cows , pedestrians and cyclists .
the tower was assembled using wooden scaffolding and small steam cranes mounted onto the tower itself .
national parks , forest & monuments include little river canyon preserve , russell cave , william b. bankhead , conecuh , talladega , and tuskegee .
hyderabad is well connected with almost every major south indian city .
upper assam is still racked by the militant bodo movement demanding autonomy for the tribal bodos .
nearest underground stops : fulham broadway , parsons green .
over the past three and a half centuries , the small fishing village has grown into a bustling metropolis which is especially known for its spaciousness which is lacking in other indian cities .
nakhon ratchasima , generally known as `` khorat `` , is thailand 's largest province situated on sprawling northeast plateau .
many tourists coming from delhi take the shatabdi express , which arrives at 9 am in the morning and returns at 0815 at night , allowing for a one day trip .
another sacred temple that you must pay a visit to during your temple tours to madhya pradesh is the omkareshwar temple located at indore in madhya pradesh , india .
amble past medieval monuments from the time of alauddin khilji , and find yourself amid fashion boutiques , art galleries and stylish bistros .
i recommend the taj west end , bangalore , for a comfortable stay ; also its jogging track is especially good .
bangalore is a cosmopolitan city , where different cultures and customs exist .
an interesting fact of the tribal villages here is that materialism just does not exist .
the construction result demonstrates the manifestation of the wisdom and tenacity of the chinese people .
when in lucknow , you must taste tunde ke kebabs divine creations ; the creator s grandson , usman mian , still makes them in the aminabad area if lucknow .
the tower was also copied on a large scale , most notably at lyon-fourviere , blackpool , new-brighton near liverpool , tokyo , berlin and most recently at sttenzhen in china .
there are many women executives , often top level management .
buckingham palace is the london home of the queen and prince philip .
the bharat milap temple is located in kamadgiri .
amber palace is a classic example of mughal & hindu architecture .
not all californian 's have cement pools or are movie stars but with a state population that just exceeds the entire population of canada , california has the largest percentage of millionaires in the u .s . .
the ideal destination for many is the penang-sized ko samui , thailand 's third largest island and its neighbour ko pha-ngan a celebrated island that hosts the biggest beach full moon party .
this place does not confine its activities to golf alone but the day hikes and excursion through the woods and villages are other attractions for the tourists and nature lovers .
the indus snaking through ladakh and the zanskar and chenab in kashmir are very different river running experiences .
kasaragod , the northern most district of kerla , is the land of forgotten forts - chandragiri , hosdurg , kumbala , panayal , bandaduka - their wistful remains standing by the sea .
vasco da gama was buried at st. francis church before his remains were taken back to portugal 14 years later .
however , some hotels may charge a minimum 30-cent successful call transaction surcharge .
as florida s population increased through immigration , so did pressure on the federal government to remove the indian people from their lands .
martam is 5 km from rumtek ; about an hour s drive from gangtok .
warli paintings , the recognizable stick figures on cloth , rather like the ones they make on their own mud walls , depicting scenes like dances and festivals are the remarkable pieces of tribal art available at the sells counter of the museum .
the take away options often works better the food is quickly and efficiently packed for you .
when nature is all you need to recuperate , kumarakom is undoubtedly the most invigorating , fascinating paradise in kerala , god 's own country .
with the smoky blue mountains - a riot of colours in summer when the rhododendrous are in full bloom-providing its stunning backdrop , this simple lodge makes for an ideal place to unwind .
the oberai is an award wining luxury hotel in the cultural and historical heart of delhi , it overlooks the prestigious golf club on one side and humayun s tomb on other at zakir hussain marg .
while in most deluxe and 5 star hotels , water is potable , it is advisable to drink mineral water at all times .
each court contains a public gallery open to anyone ( aged 14 or over ) , interested in watching justice in action , and it is well worth a visit .
despite its expansive growth and development as a luxurious destination , the splendor of hua hin remains intact .
one of the best restaurants in the city , khyber serves finger-licking good indian cuisine .
the stately ujjayanta palace , covering an area of one km , is a symbol that identifies tripura .
there are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden , representing the rivers of water , milk , wine and honey .
when the statue was completed , it barely fitted in the temple . strabo wrote : although the temple itself is very large , the sculptor is criticized for not having appreciated the correct proportions .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
there is a great selection of over fifty bars , cafes and restaurants catering for the sophisticated to the earthier .
crowded on roof tops and open fields in friendly rivalry to show off their kite flying skills .
it is a major attraction and congregation point for all seasoned trekkers and people out for longer jaunts in shimla , another of those ethereal hill stations in india , himachal pradesh .
a major tourist attraction these days is the indo pakistan border crossing at wagah , just a short distance from amritsar , with its elaborate change of guards drill with a lot of strutting and intimidatory showing off by both sides .
rao karamsi-the eighth prince of rao jodha , the founding maharaja of jodhpur successfully launched the royal dynasty at khimsar .
the atharvaveda described ayodhya as ` a city built by gods and being prosperous as paradise itself .
power cruises come fully equipped with fighting chairs and heavy tackle .
the famous embroidary called kasuti embroidary , popular in hubli and dharwad , dates back to the chalukya period , around the sixth centuary .
the climate of all the major regions of louisiana is characterized by short mild winters and long , hot , and generally humid summers .
tari , a locally made palm wine , can give you a real kick .
the land of lord krishna , mathura is not just frequented by the pious , there are those who make a pilgrimage here for the mouth-watering pedas .
debret , the most important of the french artists , systematically documented landscapes , people , and rural and urban customs .
the foundation of the mosque was laid during the reign of mohammed quli qutub shah in 1614 , but was completed only in 1687 , when the golconda kingdom was annexed by emperor aurangzeb .
a supreme court order banning polluting industries evoked strong protest from the local entrepreneurs but the process of relocation of industrial units and of creating a 2 kms exclusion zone for petrol and diesel vehicles around the taj has begun.z .
roofs are built with yellow glazed tiles ; decorations in the palace are painted yellow ; even the bricks on the ground are made yellow by a special process .
possibly the most famous clock face and chimes in the world , big ben is actually the name of the biggest bell ( 13.5 tons ) inside the clock tower ( 320ft ) which forms part of the houses of parliament .
this is the famous waxworks started by madame tussaud in 1835 and is now one of the most popular tourist attractions in london with over two million visitors a year .
the pacific ocean moderates western washington 's climate , which is generally mild , with rainy winters and little snow in the lowlands .
the colossal height of the tomb , along with its pyramidal appearance gives taj a soaring effect .
spend lazy evenings in bed or swing to the folk dances .
enjoy the cocktails on the lawn and dinner in the restaurant rio bar , popular with locals as well as tourists .
at daman opt for the charm of an old portuguese mansion that makes for a romantic resort .
khon kaen is the commercial , administrative an educational centre of the northeast , which is often used by travellers as a base for visiting many parts of upper isan .
the sea , sand and sun experience of the malabar coast is one of its most alluring charms ; this coast boasts of some of india 's finest beaches .
this bakery was among the nizams favorites ( the signboard still flaunts the royal patronage it enjoyed long ago ) and remains popular even today .
ensure that the pace of the trek is not too rapid , since this could result in exhaustion , and would in any case not be enjoyable .
the meals are served by the owner , krishna , and his family , on low tables , while one sits on the ground on the straw mats .
some of the greatest sanskrit scholars and poets were born , and wrote in the valley and from it has issued in sanskrit language a world famous collection of folk-lore. '' ( panchtantra . ) .
this is the place to buy all sorts of woven material with colorful and unusual tribal motifs .
the kabul valley proutonsa ( poonch ) , pajapuri ( rajauri ) kangra , jammu , kisthwar and ladhak , one after the other threw-off their allegiance to the rulers of kashmir .
dilli haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of india .
near hotel pelling ; in gangtok , visit the sikkim art emporium .
here you may even be treated to a gedi dance show , in which tribal dancers perform on still-a throwback to the time when people walked on stilts to avoid snakes .
the the purple valley yoga centre is a residential yoga school and offers an invigoratingly healthy experience in a beautiful sitting .
this shore temple is famous for a legend according to which the temple deity did a penance to win lord shiva 's hand in marriage but since she could not marry him she vowed to remain a virgin all her life and thus the name ' kumari ' amman temple .
the agra fort retains the irregular outline of the demolished mud wall fort of the lodis .
194 kms from bangalore is hassan , from where one can go to belur , halebid and shravanabelagola .
the chilka lake , a combination of marine , brackish and estuarine waters , is dotted with many beautiful islands .
centuries after khwaja moinuddin chishti s demise , his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind .
the boats leave hourly from 11 : 45am , the last cruise sets off at 6 : 45pm ( october to march -4.45pm ) porters restaurant english food porters english restaurant , less than 10 minutes walk from the london eye in the heart of covent garden 's theatre land is famous for serving excellent homemade real english food .
the dargah of the sufi saint , who is believed to have blessed akbar with a son , is also within the fort .
it is a perfect and balanced amalgamation of the southern and oriental exclusivity with the western tenets of hospitality and efficient service right at the doorstep of honeymooners in india .
this fixed fee scheme started on from 1 september 2003 onwards and is only applicable for those who do not have an iu installed in their foreign-registered cars .
the birth place of lord krishna , `` the best known , best loved and most complex of lord vishnu 's manifestations `` mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage .
the mould is then drained of wax and over an oven , and molten metal is poured into it after a few days , the mould is broken and the bronze icon emerges the only one of its kind to be made this way .
arriving europeans brought epidemic diseases that swept through the native american population .
taxis and auto rickshaws are available outside the airport or you could have a rented car meet you on arrival .
equally outstanding are certain other structures in which the pure inventiveness of eiffel 's company was allowed free rein , such as the `` portable `` bridges sold around the world in `` kits `` , the ingenious structure of the statue of liberty in new york , and of course the eiffel tower itself .
another good option is treat resort , which has a water park , discotheque , pool and variety of indoor and outdoor games .
in the night market you will find toiletries , cosmetics , watches , games and great gifts to take back home .
cubbon park planned and laid out in 1864 , this beautiful 300-acre park contains the public library and the museum .
the ashram once housed nearly 10 , 000 students who studied under the tutelage of sage bhardwaj .
india travel destinations arranges for tours to kerala for the benefit of the honeymooners in india while propagating the fabled backwaters and the traditional boat races of kerala as the favorite honeymoon destinations in india for people to undertake honeymoon in kerala .
in the heritage village raghurajpur , 103 families are continuously engaged in the traditional pattachitra , or paintings on cloth .
tham chao le cave is located to the west of laem sak in a bay surrounded by mountains and picturesque islands .
inhabitants of the province khorat , are mainly engaged in agricultural activities .
in heranca goesa you have to book dinner by 10 a.m. so , that the owners can get you the freshest seafood .
the alpine meadows or bugyal of chipla kot lay 30 kms beyond munsiyari .
the ice skating club in shimla has already celebrated its diamond jubilee .
so exquisite are the famous benaradi saris that they are the first choice for many a bride s trousseau .
although the foundation of the temple dates back to the seventh century bc , the structure that earned a spot in the list of wonders was built around 550 bc .
steeped in the splendor of its past , the ancient capital of gwalior has yet made a successful transition into a modern indian city , vibrant and bustling .
this unique observatory jantar mantar was built by the rajput king sawai jai singh ii in 1724 .
it is one of london 's few attractions that enjoy a significant portion of repeat business , say no more .
raj ghat is the serene memorial of mahatma gandhi on the banks of yamuna .
this sport has been conveniently arranged near bhrigu peaks in the hamta pass and solang nala too is another convenient place for the furtherance of this high on-adrenaline-sport. .
vimal shah , who was a minister in the royal court of a local rajput king , raja bhimdeo , constructed this jain temple .
therefore , the country 's name instigates great national pride , which has unfortunately been marred by years of turmoil and tyranny under the lead of caudillos ( military dictators .
in the smaller towns of uttaranchal , banking options will be of a strictly limited nature , restricted to minor branches of government banks that do not offer many facilities and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling , and often not even that .
sunlight plays with darkness at misty munnar , the quaint hill station in kerala .
now hyderabad is a city of significant importance .
in a stereotypical camel safari in india , the interested traveler can look out for the rare golden brown sand dunes in the middle of a camel safari , undertaken by an authorized tour operator .
shopping is a delightful experience in pushkar fair ; wide range of handicraft items is displayed on roadside stalls .
aurangabad became a thriving industrial centre with many fine academic institutions .
if the ajanta and ellora caves figure in your travel plans , as they should , make it a point to spend a couple of days in aurangabad and you will not be disappointed .
it houses various sections on geology , archaeology , numismatics , anthropology , botany and zoology .
the mall as we see it today was designed at the beginning of this century by the architect aston webb , who also designed the victoria monument and rebuilt the front of buckingham palace around the same time .
the magnificent towers , bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third mughal emperor , akbar .
situated amidst lush green hills rajgir lays 102 kms. from patna and is sacred to the memory of the founder of both buddhism and jainism .
a mere 84 kilometers from ajanta , ellora is a marvel of architectural extravagance , inspired by the vajrayana school of buddhism , which was rich in symbolism of magic and mysticism .
but there were also anti-slavery leaders , including senator thomas hart benton , and residents voted against secession in 1861 .
in retirement following the panama scandal , eiffel devoted the final thirty years of his life to a fruitful career as a scientist .
most of chiang mai 's mountains are oriented from north to south .
the islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves , and the local huts which are built on stilts .
the pelican state , bayou state , louisiana ( la louisianne ) was named by french explorer sieur de la salle after king louis xiv of france .
the western ghats has mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
these tours are run daily from 8 am to 10 am starting at the swaminarayan temple , kalupur .
mysore 's prime attractions are the mysore palace , the chamundi hills , the famous brindavan gardens , the jayachamarajendra art gallery located in the jaganmohan palace , the mysore zoo and st. philomena 's church .
shimla , the capital of himachal pradesh serving as a honeymoon destination in india is all set to enthrall and mesmerize dewey eyed and moon gazing cozy twosomes who are out to live the most ebullient and cherished days of their lives and are virtually on the threshold of a life cusp .
sights , sounds and even smells combine to tell the colorful story of britain 's capital city to visitors traveling in cars specially designed to resemble london taxicabs but thankfully , without the drivers ! indeed , the cars were actually made by the same company who build real london taxis ! over 70 figures are involved in ' the spirit of london ' many of which are animated and fused with a host of special effects .
remnants of hinduism , buddhism , jainism and islam can still be found in ayodhya .
it is also a good place to catch the sunrise and sunset that transform the surrounding landscape into a myriad hued spectacle of gold , green and red .
both decks are accessible for wheel chair users .
thus , shimla being a gem of hill station in india with its old world british charm adding up to its completeness attracts a thick throng of tourists via tours to shimla .
in what was known as the black hawk war , sauk indians ( led by black hawk ) made their last stand in wisconsin in 1832 .
you can also buy jute products from kaliagani , about 360 km from kolkata .
thanks to the tireless efforts of head honcho mithun khaitan , zafraan laguna offers an authentic international experience in the heart of charminar city .
chaat aficionos will find heaven in the streets of indore and gwalior , while every kebab fan will swear by bhopal s cuisine .
it was in this hostelry that the highwayman dick turpin hid from pursuing soldiers .
mumbai remains full of culture and commerce , moving between the two with consummate ease , while pune balances colonial legacies contemporary living with equal panache .
the bustling sounds from the nearby spital fields meat market and the general old world charm of this spot were endearing enough to lure john betjeman , one the best loved poet laureates to buy a property nearby .
the various buildings within this sprawling fort complex represent the assimilation of different cultures , which was the mark of the mughal period .
the ceremonial bamboo hat , khumbeu , is made of waterproof wild hnathial leaves .
rediscover a pace of life in daman taht is virtually lost to the modern world .
lengthy queues of several kilometers snake their way past the tomb at the shrine while outside the dargah precincts , two massive cauldrons cook sweet rice garnished with dry fruits and condiments to be served as tabarukh or sanctified food .
dozens of special rice varieties are grown in bilaspur , known as the dhan ka katora ( rice bowl .
the city was constantly faced with threats from both muslim and hindu rulers , and had to be fortified by guru hargobind .
agra is kno9wn for its handicrafts , especially marble and soft stone inlay work .
the valleys of brir , rambur and bamburet are the home of the only pagan tribe kalash , the wearers of black robes .
if you re artistically inclined , you might like to pick up some kangra and basholi miniatures from the bhuri singh museum in chamba and the kangra art museum in lower dharamshala .
all these unbroken victories created a feeling of pride among the people here and his victories came to be celebrated in a big way .
before the campaign of national integration launched by king prithvi narayan shah the kathmandu valley was ruled by the malla kings , whose contributions to art and culture are indeed great and unique .
a great army of manpower composed of soldiers , prisoners , and local people , built the wall .
it was the first building in france to openly display its metalwork .
45 km away from the desert city of jaisalmer , desert natinal park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills .
toy train is one of the few remaining diesel engine trains and although it spits up huge dark clouds of pollution , it is a major tourist attraction and a reminder of the indian railways ' glorious beginning .
whether it is local , asian , middle eastern or european cuisine , there 's something for everyone , and we are sure this will spice up your travel adventure in singapore .
although bolivia is landlocked , it never feels claustrophobic blessed with breathtaking lakes and lofty mountains .
foreign motorists are required to pay tolls and a vehicle entry permit ( vep ) charge at the checkpoints when they drive into singapore .
nehru zoological park is spread over 1.2 sq. kms of landscaped gardens and houses about 3000 animals .
moreover , the fallen colossus would have blocked the harbor entrance .
by 1862 , the dakota were crowded into a small reservation along the minnesota river .
in an area of half a square kilometer ( 124 acres ) , 60 percent of the zhouzhuang 's structures were built during the ming and qing dynasties , which is from 1368 to 1911 .
feni is sold under several brand names , but the ideal drink is the one concocted at a goan home or a local watering hole .
pop into cherra bazaar in cherrapunjee to shop for areca nut and cinnamon sticks .
the very pulse of silvassa , kilvani road is where the bulk of the town s commerce is concentrated .
originally a 19th century boarding house , built for british and scottish tea planters , it was converted into a hotel in 1939 .
the nalaban island within the lagoon has been notified as a bird sanctuary .
east kalimantan resident in 2004 amount to 2.750.369 men in 2005 east kalimantan residents is predicted amount to 2 , 8 million men .
row upon row of glorious period houses and pristine squares make up the majority of the area , but there are also a number of extremely exclusive shops , restaurants and attractive pubs .
the menu at leela palace kempinski includes rich and delectable mughlai dishes whose spices will tingle your tastebuds , all to the gentle strains of classical music wafting through the air .
also certain to delights are the pilgrimage sites of ujjain , omkareshwar , maheshwar and amarkantak , with their beautiful temples in lush riverside settings .
an estimated 20 , 000 people worked to complete the taj , enchanting mausoleum , on the banks of the yamuna .
cochin is well connected by rail most major cities of india .
among the vintage models which had come in from different cities of india to take part in the 1997 vintage car rally , one could spot the 1903 humber , 1919 fiat 501 . 1923 rover , 1936 mercedes benz 170v , 1938 moms 8 , 1923 austin and the 1926 erskine .
phagli festival of the lahaul valley is celebrated in phagun , the last month of winter and the beginning of the spring season .
this region witnessed the invasion of mahmud of ghazni in 1009 ad .
himachal pradesh excellent for shawls .
by air there are flights from kolkata ( daily ) and guwahati ( triweekly ) to agartala .
the london eye river cruise experience departs conveniently from the london eye pier located next to the london eye itself .
first built in 1663 the site is the oldest in the world to have been continually in use as a theatre .
but aurangabad 's crowning glory is undoubtedly the famous buddhist caves at ajanta & the magnificent rock temples of ellora .
once known as puri later gharapuri this island was the proud capital of a powerful coastal kingdom and the great cave shrine in praise of shiva , excavated in the sixth century , added to the ruling dynasty .
tamil nadu is known as the temple town of the south as there are quite a few amazing architectural marvels here that were built by the several rulers who reigned in this region in the ancient times .
lohagarh is also known as the iron fort , lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of bharatpur .
instead of becoming more spanish , florida increasingly became more `` american . '' .
mysore in karnataka also has a profusion of palaces and enchanting havelis .
please insist on a mosquito net to ensure you are not vulnerable to the malarial mosquito pack light cotton clothes for summer and light woolens for winter .
the bare minimum is just under us $ 20 a day while a top end holiday here could cost upwards of us $ 125. .
chhatti padshahi gurudwara located in kashmir , india was constructed to commemorate the site where the sixth sikh guru came to preach sikhism in kashmir , india .
jaipur , jodhpur , jaisalmer and bikaner in the state of rajasthan were stronghold of hill forts and series of palaces .
nimaj also covers a unique art gallery showcasing some masterpieces of sculptural art , adorned within natural surroundings so as to provide an authentic ambience .
however , learning that the war is over , the british pack up and go home .
the markets and well equipped shops to meet all but the most obscure of demands .
jaipur is surrounded by a wall having seven gates and was built for protection from invading armies and wild animals that lurked just outside in the jungles that surrounded the city .
it is the idea that the king of gods is capable of unroofing the temple if he stood up that fascinated poets and historians alike .
the kannadiga new year day of yugadi that falls on the second half of march or early april is celebrated with devotion and delight .
rates are quoted in singapore dollars and maybe subject to a 10 % service charge , 5 % goods and services tax ( gst ) and 1 % cess .
you also stand a good chance of sampling it during festivals like losar , the tibetan new year .
at prassinikadavu muthappan temple , theyyam is performed every day .
the prices are steep , but not enough to burn holes in your pocket , the store also has home delivery service , to save your trouble of transporting bigger purchases .
the first brush with royality could be had on the palace on wheels , the tourist train run by the rajasthan tourism department .
usually a wedding or party menu , the wazawan includes succulent dishes such as rishta ( meatballs ) , kebab , tabak maz ( mildly flavoured ribs , batter-fried ) , roganjosh ( the real thing , not the plains version ) , yakhni ( meat , delicately flavoured with aniseed and curd ) , and gushtaba ( meatballs in curd gravy .
choose from sheryas retreat s yoga and wellness packages to discover the all round excellence or shreyas inherent within you , and draw on the expertise of the instructor who conduct these workshops .
in retaliation , many sikhs were butchered by hindus .
the new state enjoyed a thirty year period of prosperity , and by 1860 had a population of 435 , 000 , 25 percent of whom were slaves .
if you have evern a passing interest in aromatherapy , drop in at line bazaar in olandganj in jaunpur for oils and perfumes of the best quality .
wisconsin 's original inhabitants were the winnebago , dakota ( sioux ) and menominee indians .
funtsok coffee house , little tibet and tibet kitchen in this hill station in india , are some of the places of tibetan origin and significance , which need to be visited to have a feel of tibet without visiting the real place .
to visit the namtok khlong thom waterfall , the admission fee is 10 baht per person .
if you find yourself near a small village , head to the biggest ground and you may get lucky , otherwise check with your local friends .
the place being nearer to the nainital , almora , pithoragarh etc can attract large number of water sports loving tourists also .
nowadays , the forbidden city , or the palace museum is open to tourists from home and abroad .
the pushkar lake is a sacred spot for hindus .
intriguing diversity among ethnic tribes coupled with breathtaking scenery makes chiang mai one of asia 's most attractive tourist destinations .
woodcarvings , embroidered items , bags and purses with tapestry work , copperware , scrolls , tibetan jewelry and artifacts can be picked up from the shops and markets across the town .
tourists can surf , ski , scuba dive , snorkel , sail , and fish or just enjoy the sea , the sun and the sand .
the cottages may be devoid of any luxury , but tamdil lake and its surrounds will make you forget such worldly worries .
the most fragrant is the famous short-grained doobraj rice , which you can take home to add an unusual touch to your dinner .
col james edward corbett s love for the richness of the region and sensitivity to the miseries of the simple hill folk , were to shape his life as a courageous hunter of the man eating tigers & leopards that plagued the villagers .
erp is a scheme to help keep singapore roads congestion-free. .
enjoy a leisurly drink in the cosy bar or just relax on the comfortable sofas of the grand durbar hall .
a holiday can t get any better or more memorable .
from hyderabad , catch an overnight train to vijaywada , kuchipudi village is a 60 km drive from there , for an overnight stay , there s vijaywada s grand residency at prakasam road .
start shopping for curios and souvenirs at purabshree , jail road and then head straight to bara bazaar .
hyderbad , being capital city is well conected by road from all major cities in andhra pradesh and karnataka , tamilnadu , maharastra and orissa .
kolkata was a small seafaring town to begin with but it was only with the incursion of the british colonial rule that kolkata came to be regarded as the bulwark of an incipient british empire in bengal , bihar and uttar pradesh .
the govind devji temple located at ujjain in madhya pradesh , india is one temple that you must visit during your temple tours to madhya pradesh , india .
the resorts in dadra & nagar haveli are also popular for film units , who find these locales convenient for shoots out of mumbai .
even as you walk down the rabindra kanan today , you will feel strains of the poet s songs filling the air .
weavers of these kanchipuram saris claim decent from the illustrious sage markanda , the weaver of gods , who it is believed , wove the first fabric ever , from lotus fiber .
there is architecture and sculpture here from periods ranging as far back as the 7th century ad pallava rule to as recently as the 19th century marathas .
the water is pumped from a reservoir 6 km away into a tank , that today houses entire shoals of khol fish .
a festival of sufi music enhances the spiritual aura at the huge fair .
bronze icons is ancient crafts of panchaloha attained glory under the cholas , and the best bronze icons are still cast in the old chola strongholds of madurai , swaminalai and tiruchinapalli by craftsmen who strictly adhere to tradition .
sheikhpura kothi , hansi , a two and a half hour drive from delhi on nh 10 .
the best way to know about the glorious heritagrof new delhi is to know its monuments .
savour the silences of late afternoon and watch the hills to by from the toy train .
the only way to sample traditional tribal food is if you re invited to a gond or baiga home-easy if you spend a day or two at the bhoramdeo jungle retreat , kawardha ( or any of the larger stay option ) , where the owner arrange visits to the local villages .
upper bhavani is a naturalist s paradise .
there are a number of places of historical interest in ajmer , rajasthan , india that you could tour to during your historical tours to this historical city .
karakoram has the largest concentration of lofty pinnacles and mountains in the world , stretching for 400 kms with 250 kms depth .
a visit to the dam is a must for the breathtaking scenery that it has to offer .
the lake is bejeweled with an island restaurant in the middle of the lake in this memorable hill station in india ; nainital .
for residual metal work , visit belguntha , in ganjam district .
the republic of colombia was formally established in 1855 .
the surrounding area will also be revitalized and it is hoped that a new rail link to the area will also be created .
the world headquarters of the theosophical society , formed to facilitate and encourage the study of comparative religion .
on offer are at least six varieties of this popular sweet , said to warm you up in the winter cold with special ingredients added such as dry fruit , jaggery or revadi , all for about rs. 100 a kilo .
khon kaen national museum houses objects from the dvaravati period and bronze sculptures from ban chiang .
today the fort is used by the state legislative assembly and as the secretarial offices of the tamil nadu government .
it was said a well was dug every fifty meters along the road in order to pour water onto the road in winter to slide huge stones on ice into the city .
rajgir , kusumbi , kushinagar , sravasti and vaishali are other important buddhist sites covered under the buddhist circuit in the states of uttar pradesh and bihar .
built in 1858 / 9 the bell was named after one sir benjamin hall and when it was cast it was britain 's heaviest bell .
you can learn to windsurf on all major beaches in phuket , samui , pattaya and krabi , as well as on islands of ko tao and ko chang .
permanent galleries include medieval bengali and indian miniature paintings , textiles and excellent specimens of old hand woven daccai and baluchari saris .
such isolation was more favorable to chiang mai as it helped to nurture and preserve the unique lanna culture .
the town also has a rare apiary museum , if you re intrigued by the history behind the bee-keeping tradition .
named illahabas , the city acquired its grand fort over looking the sangam in 1583 .
there s dzukou valley , also called the valley of eternal charm , with its repertoire of adventure sports and stretches upon stretches of beautiful flowers , especially orchids .
il ferno located on the road between manali town and the bridge to old manali , it s crisp cheesy pizzas and fresh , crunchy salads deserve a mention for the wonders they do with veggies .
the punjab , kanuj , tibet , ladhak , badakshan , iran , bihar , gauda ( bengal ) kalinga ( orissa ) , south india , gujarat , malwa , marwar and sindh were all conquered by him .
the architecture and the carvings of the 34 monolithic cave temples are truly awesome and breathtaking in their grand scale and design .
on chowringhee , this modern nehru children 's museum houses miniature models in clay that depict scenes from the ramayana and mahabharata .
more tourist places like jog falls , nandhi hills are found here .
native hawaiians and other pacific islanders numbered 1 , 313. .
for cool comfort the months of novemberfebruary are great when the flora is resurging after the rains ; the rainy months of june-september bring the elephants to the fore , bring the temperatures down and the metal led roads of bandipur don t get washed out either .
iguassu falls are the widest in the world , and in the native tupi-guarani language , guazu means big , and i means water .
as the capital of the country , delhi stocks handicrafts from every state .
the first english settlement was made in 1670 at albemarle point on the ashley river , but poor conditions drove the settlers to the site of charleston ( originally called charles town .
organized as dakota territory ( which included lands that eventually became north dakota , south dakota , montana , and wyoming ) on march 2 , 1861 .
the trains that arrive at the small badami station are all ii class passenger trains .
it is this massive assortment of places , people and traditions that makes brazil such an interesting country to visit. chile is situated in south america , bounded by peru , bolivia , argentina , the antarctic and the pacific ocean .
the city by itself offers extensive shopping opportunities , a rich fanfare of cuisine , hotels to suit all pockets and much cultural and other entertainment .
once you visited the beautiful andaman and nicobar islands you can be sure you will return to them time and again .
at the site of the mausoleum itself , only the foundation remains of the once magnificent wonder .
situated in the middle of the park , the open-air theatre s unique atmosphere makes it a marvelous place to see a play .
the baltoro ( 62 km ) , a mighty glacier fed by some 30 tributaries constitutes a surface area of 1 , 219 sq. km. of the fourteen over 8 , 000 m peaks on earth , four occupy an amphitheatre at the head of baltoro .
there are 30 rustic style rooms , with stylish bathrooms , comfortable sit-outs and cane furniture .
the sharadotsav in october , is a cultural show with the countrys leading dancers and musicians performing at historical locations in the agra fort and fatehpur sikri ( 39 kms ) there are several other fairs like the kailash fair ( 12 kms ) in august / september and the monthlong bateshwar fair ( 65 kms ) in november .
apart from its long history , the alwar city has a rich natural heritage with some beautiful lakes and picturesque valleys thickly wooded in parts .
the material for taj mahal was brought in from all over india and central asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site .
there are exquisite silk saris and brass lamps for festive occasions , roam the streets for all you need to adorn your house .
one of the best eateries here is the blue sheep , which serves chinese-style sikkimese specialties .
for a tasty of authentic chakem , you have to find a host in one of the families in the hill stations .
this rule also applies to phones , radios and cassette recorders , and unfortunately there are no facilities for leaving such items outside the court .
eastern washington gets much hotter in summer and colder in winter .
if buzzing flea market is your thing , also visit ahmedabad s sunday market near ellis bridge a good place for old books .
the maharashtra state road transport corporation runs ordinary and luxury buses from aurangabad to mumbai .
he had witnessed the founding of alexandria , and established his capital there . off of the city 's coast lies a small island : pharos .
at the smart multi-cuisine restaurant called elevens , neighbors and arch rivals in the game , india and pakistan , find themselves on the menu-trying to outdo each other even here , in the kebabs and meat varieties .
spread over an area of 2190 square kilometers , bangalore enjoys a pleasant and equable climate throughout the year .
if it s spicy , savoury snacks that tickle your palate , sarafa bazaar in indore is the place to go .
sightseeing ajmer is venerated as a holy place for both hindus and muslims .
st. philomena church , this beautiful cathedral was built in 1956 and is one of the largest churches in the country .
given the risk he faced , he was granted major financial advantages and solid guarantees , which allowed him to collect his profit as soon as the work was begun .
the traditional colours used are deep red , blue , yellow , green and scarlet , and the kalka design often has pretty floral borders .
apart from the thriving natural bounty of sikkim , our major hill station in india , india travel destinations also organizes tours to buddhist seminaries and monasteries , which are symbolically innate to sikkim , a prominent hill station in india .
the national museum located on the way to swayambhunath hill is most popular among the kathmandu people. it holds not only ancient artifacts , but also interesting mementos of recent kings and recently used firearms .
about a kilometer from the museum is the sprawling , an elaborate victorian building set amid well laid out lawns .
golconda fort is an easy 13 kilometers from hyderabad city , take a luxury bus , taxi or an autorikshwa to reach there .
it is easy to navigate through the city ; few guides bother you as tourism is not the most important commercial activity here .
one of the greatest kingdoms in indonesia history , the buddhist empire of sriwijaya , prospered and grew along the musi river bank in shouth sumatra over a thousand years ago .
the project was commissioned by the rhodian sculptor chares of lindos .
take time for a diversion to mahe , once a tiny french outpost .
bangkok , the great city has had astounding success in combining the ancient and modern world .
carpets and dry fruits are also worth checking out .
the universality of portinari s work led to invitations and commissions from many sources , among them the monumental murals at the library of congress in washington , dc and murals on the theme of war and peace at the united nations in new york .
chowpatty occupies a special-place in the life of mumbai , having been the venue of mass political meetings in the pre-independence era .
mughals brought their fine arches , perfect domes and filigree culminating in the perfection of the taj mahal at agra .
the indian architecture tradition is the living vital art from assimilating in it the influence of the various dynasties which ruled over it .
the city of the thousand-headed anantha , the holy serpent on which lord vishnu reclines , thiruvananthapuram is one of the most beautiful cities of india .
kozhikode was then the capital of the powerful zamorin of malabar .
the theosophical society is located along the adyar river .
stall near the press club in shillong is a small shack where you ll find authentic local cuisine .
fatehpur sikri was built by the mughal emperor akbar during 1564 a .d .
the massive taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates .
the centre is open to visitors from friday to wednesday from 10 am to 4 pm and admission is free .
agartala is struggling to keep pace with its essential services vastly outstripped by an increasing population .
the oldest , cave 1 , has stunning carvings of shiva in his nataraja avatar , dancing the apocalyptic tandava .
high altitude climbers will enjoy the rock faces at sonmarg in kashmir and gangotri in garhwal , uttaranchal .
considering the rudimentary means available at that period , this could be considered record speed .
inside the city , taxis are the only way to get around .
while pottery is a thriving business all over the state , the famous ayyanar horses , made in salem and pudokottai in terracotta , are a must buy .
accommodations are provided within the park but advance reservations are required .
auli offers a panoramic view of himalayan peaks like nanda devi , kamet , mana parvat and dunagiri see mingly only a snowball throw away , auli offers perfect skiing conditions .
spend the afternoon peddle boating or lolling on shikaras , when hungry ; pitch your hook to catch fish .
phuket has a lot more to offer its visitors other than its natural heritage sea , sand , sky , beach , forest , and world renowned diving sites .
khimsar is a fine tourist destination in rajasthan .
the highland park hotel , renowned for its elegance , is now owned by a kashmiri family .
agra and varanasi are also major centers of the huge tourism industry .
the dakota who stayed and those who eventually returned have formed four communities in southern minnesota .
the company had by this time mastered perfectly the principle of building bridge supports .
the state s population has tripled in the last thirty years .
one of the best hotel in town , the japfr ashok has two-star facilities for a comfortable stay , and is right in the middle of the town s din and bustle , with the main bazaar close by .
team mrf , team jk , team jct and team paarel are the only four teams in india today .
some of the interesting tourist places in patna itself would be golghar , harmandirji , jalan museum , martyrs ' memorial , kumrahar , pathar ki masjid , patna museum , khuda baksh oriental library and agam kuan .
disaffected members of anapo ( alianza nacional popular ) formed a guerrilla movement known as movimiento 19 de abril ( m-19 ) , which initiated a 15-year-long guerrilla campaign against the government and acquired other left-wing groups .
visit mirid to walk through gardens strewn with flowers and thick forests .
ice skating in shimla , normally begins in early december and carries on to february .
a fascinating and wonderfully colourful monsoon festival , minjar is an occasion when the woman of himachal villages place specially prepared sweets and savoury delicacies on large platters and , singing mournful songs , takes them to be immersed in the river .
rainfall is light , with the more arid areas in western south dakota , as evidenced by the badlands .
the jaigarh fort also houses the jai ban - the largest cannon in asia , rumored to have been test fired only once .
india harbours eighty percent of the entire population of the one hundered rhinoceros in the world .
the city bus service is efficient but very crowded .
kanatal is a lake that is believed to have dried up mysteriously .
within the fort walls that still carry the poignant scars of tipu s last stand against the british , are a mosque and the ranganathaswamy temple .
the neermahal , the royal family s summer retreat , is a hallmark fusion of hindu and mughal architecture .
white churches dot the landscape leaving no doubt that the city is devoutly christian .
spend some time viewing the himalayan peaks , yamuna river , and the mussoorie valley .
patricio aylwin , leader of the concertacion de los partidos de la democracia ( cpd ) , a 17-party coalition in which the christian democrats ( pcd , usually classified as centre-left , in contrast with european practice ) were the largest component , stood against the general and won in the presidential elections of december 1989 .
in northern india , corbett national musk deerpark and dudhwa national park in uttar pradesh , kanha national park and bandhavgarh national park in madhya pradesh and rajasthan 's ranthambore national park and sariska tiger reserve , are all the home of the magnificent predator-the tiger .
a number of hotels are located near the bus stand and the railway station ; station road ( west ) is inexpensive while station road ( east ) has the more up market accommodation .
trains from delhi , gwalior , jhansi and the south arrive here , it is closest to most good hotels , and has a tourist information counter .
this will be paid together with the vep and toll charges via the autopass card when departing from singapore .
taragarh fort was built on a hilltop by ajaipal chauhan , the founder of the city in the 7th century and is about 3 km from the city of ajmer .
india travel destinations provides the visitor with an all-enabling kitty of info bytes with its proposed programme of sightseeing for the tourist to experience the backstage of the scene of hill stations in india .
another symbol of resistance was the famous apache warrior geronimo , who battled white invaders in the southwest until he was captured and incarcerated in oklahoma , where he died of old age .
court number one is the most interesting , with its original furniture and dock leading to the detaining cells below .
according to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the hindu deity lord shiva was meditating when his consort uma 's cry shook him out of his meditation .
charnminar the graceful tower stands for everything hyderabadi its confluence of cultures , royal past and the life that is alive and buzzing like the markets around it .
the people also suffered from famine , and plague as well , and a considerable section of people became victims of these calamities .
even in their present state of decay , they command admiration both by their imposing dimensions , and by the beauty of their architectural design and decoration .
in wayfarer mountain resort s five log cabins and five swiss tents provide all the urban comforts you re used to .
33km from agartala is a botanical garden with a beautifully kept small zoo .
sharing a meal with a traditional mizo family will be an unforgettable experience .
native americans , many of whom were of the ojibwa and sioux peoples , were 4.9 percent of the population ; blacks were 0.6 percent , asians were 0.6 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity were 1.5 percent .
panchranga pickle located at panchkula himachal pradesh border , gt road .
about three-quarters of all the church members in south dakota belong to protestant denominations .
covering an area of 25 , 494 square kilometers that is mainly plateaus and mountainous terrain , khorat has fascinating traditions , charming hospitality , splendid natural scenery and awesome historical sites .
they include the uttar pradesh high court , the all saints cathedral and allahabad university .
it is also a land of beautiful music .
there are scores of over 7 , 000 m peaks in the karakoram range and hundreds of nameless summits below 6 , 000 metres , mere points on the map .
the 19th century all saints cathedral popularly known as patthar girjaghar ( stone church ) is a towering gothic structure that still holds prayers and sunday mass .
the most sough-after item is the pink pearl necklace which can be yours for as little as rs. 500 .
in 1801 , the british annexed the city and its fort , establishing colonial rule for the next 150 years .
near tezpur lie the ruins of stone temples ' da parbatia ' about 5 kms. west .
laxmi narayana temple , which is the main temple of chamba town , was built by sahil varman in the 10th century ad .
the neelum river streams through the town , joins river jhelum at domel and plays a dominant role in the micro climate of muzaffarabad .
than bok khorani national park s headquarters is located just one kilometer from tambon ao leuk neua market intersection on the ao luk sak road .
situated on the indo-nepal border in district lakhimpur-kheri of uttar pradesh , the dudhwa tiger reserve with an area of 614 sq. km .
at one time , during the gold rush of the early 1800s , idaho s population was one-quarter chinese. by 1870 , a majority of all idaho miners were chinese .
another place to check out is cottage arts emporium at bangalore.location : 133 , farah winsford , infantry road .
for years , the sanctuary was visited by merchants , tourists , artisans , and kings who paid homage to the goddess by sharing their profits with her .
rectangular in shape , tiananmen square is the world 's largest palace complex and covers 74 hectares .
prepare for your senses to be overwhelmed the restaurants at the grand ashok , which put all sorts of culinary delights on the table , crafted by expert chefs with such dedication to perfection that they are completely irresistible .
free land was opened in 1863 , and the northern pacific railroad was chartered in 1864 .
perfect in any season , darjeeling is the stuff dreams are made of .
one of the sports involves the test of scores of passengers even as they struggle to keep themselves from falling off the camel 's back .
the best time to visit ahmedabad is between october and march .
the mughal emperor akbar built fatehpur sikri during 1564 a .d .
the highest elevation is harney peak in pennington county at 7 , 242 feet while the lowest elevation is big stone lake in roberts county at 966 feet .
the star shaped temple at somnathpur is a splendid example of hoysla architecture .
erected in memory of the poet saint thiruvalluvar , the shrine at nungambakkam is constructed after the temple car of thiruvarur .
during your tours to the historical monuments in the mandu region of madhya pradesh , india you can visit the jahaz mahal , the hindola mahal , ashrafi mahal and hoshang shah 's tomb .
karakoram means black mountain in turkish , this splendid magnificent collection of dark brown and black metamorphic rocks is the most unique mountain range .
the threshold of the lahaul plateau is nourished by chandra & bhaga rivers .
although kohima is dotted with private shops that sell typical naga goodies , this is the indisputable best in town for naga handlooms and handicrafts .
chonor house , dharamshala , is perfect for lunch and you are sure to enjoy the fabulous tibetan and thai food on offer .
where you can experience every season-from searing balmy autumn and a mysterious monsoon thrown in for good measure .
andretta pottery s kiln-fired glaze and attractive rangoli design make it rather distinctive .
today , polo is not just restricted to the royalty and the indian army , many companies and firms too patronize the sport .
guwahati is connected by regular bus service with shillong , silchar , dibrugarh , jorhat , tezpur , siliguri , sibsagar , dimapur , kohima , imphal , aizwal , itanagar , barpetta road .
hawa mahal was built by maharaja sawai pratap singh in 1799 ad and lal chand usta was the architect .
the up market hotels are along the mall road and offer facilities like swimming pools and gyms .
in 1845 queen victoria asked for the palace to be extended to make more room for her growing family of four children .
after the end of his career in business , marred by the failure of the panama canal , eiffel began an active life of scientific experimental research in the fields of meteorology , radiotelegraphy and aerodynamics .
the maharaja himself designed the palace and nobel laureate rabindranath tagore was an occasional guest .
two of the most important elements encouraging european exploration of the northwest were competition between european nations and the search for the northwest passage , an inland water route linking the atlantic and pacific oceans .
the guests favorite , however , is the nakshstra vanam , a garden with nine trees representing nine planets .
the main shrines among them are the hanuman temple , kalika temple , panchnam junakhara , thingal bhairav temple and the vaneswar temple .
the 300-years old fort of janjira is an architectural marvel - once upon a time considered to be impregnable .
located on the northern coast of west java , it is the center of government , commerce and industry and has an extensive communications network with the rest of the country and the outside world .
the gigantic ashoka pillar , of polished sandstone stands 10.6 meters high , dating back to 232 b.c. .
pick up one of the delightful tiles featuring mario miranda s cartoons .
cycle rickshaws and auto rickshaws are easily available all over the city and are a good local way to get around be prepared to bargain with the drivers or you may be taken literally for a ride .
centuries of cultural , religious and culinary excellence , they nestle amidst paddy fields , rubber and cashew plantation , coconut palms , rain-forests and , of course , the sea .
another beautiful shrine , the gita mandir , located on the mathura - vrindavan road has a fine image of shri krishna in its sanctum .
adjoining madame tussaud 's is the london planetarium .
relatively unknown to the most tourists , the ubon ratchathani boasts a number of natural wonders , cultural and historical attractions , national parks , silk producing shops , etc .
a third mythical saraswati river , believed to flow underground towards the sangam , gives the confluence its other name ' triveni ' .
chonburi , bangkok s nearest seaside town , is located on the eastern coast of the gulf of thailand , only 80 kilometers from bangkok .
taking a break from kite flying is equally rewarding , for waiting in the wings is a whole spread of delectable savouries and sweets .
the red naga shawl is almost synonymous with the north-east. .
some of the main attractions in khorat are khmer ruins. scattered around the province , these products of ancient wisdom shines through time .
the check post has now become a popular site for tourists , who come to see the change of guards and retreat of troops at sundown .
along the banks of the pushkar lake is the former residence of raja man singh of ajmer , man mahal .
architecture in india is a pulsating art from which continues even today .
there is a money change bureau located in taj ganj which is open mon and sat .
though motor sport started with circuit racing in india , the fact today remains that racing has hardly progressed within the country .
ayodhya is a city of immense antiquity full of historical significance and sacred temples .
the sioux and other tribes were greatly troubled by the increasing numbers of explorers and settlers who entered the region after the civil war , especially after the opening of the bozeman trail in 1864 .
in case , however , a l.o./m.g. feels strongly that non-acceptance of his advice would jeopardize the security of the country or would create law and order problems , he shall ask the leader to give him a note , in writing indicating .
is a picturesque lake 110 km from agartala offers a motor or country boat ride in a vast body of water dotted with 48 islands .
in delhi khan market is immensely popular with foreign diplomats and expatriates .
the kheer bhawani temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india .
responsible eco-tourism includes programs that minimize the adverse effects of traditional tourism on the natural environment , and enhance the cultural integrity of local people .
however , just 15 years after it was established , the court had to be moved out of fatehpur sikri because of acute shortage of water .
sandalwood happens to be the primary product that is both legitimately and illegitimately extricated out of the nilgiri forests making these forests a profitable section of natural bounty for the state governments to upkeep .
tayub dance : a popular social dance from nganjuk , 120 km southwest of surabaya. this dance is usually performed at wedding parties or other celebratory gatherings where the dancers use their scarfs to invite guests to join them .
the highest elevation is black mesa in cimarron county at 4 , 973 feet while the lowest elevation is little river in mccurtain county at 289 feet .
the place where the two armies confronted each other was later called thap phraya , which means the army of the phraya .
chamundi hills is 1150m hill that is named after goddess durga , the consort of lord shiva , who vanquished the demon mahishasura .
the magic of rajasthan is unequalled in the world for its heritage , culture , safaris , sand dunes and lush green forests with its wildlife .
located at the mouth of river damanganga , on the gulf of khamba , daman is home to some of the most magnificent portuguese architecture in india .
among the more interesting paintings are the jakata tales , illustrating diverse stories relating to the previous incarnations of the buddha as bodhisattva , a saintly being who is destined to become buddha .
an archipelago of five islands , ko ha yai is where shallow water coral reefs are located .
andhra pickles taste exactly as they look red hot and fiery , the bestseller is the tangy pickled gongura leaf , which is unique to the sate .
the fort built in the 13th century , served the kings as a stronghold , administrative centre and market place .
the deeg palace is a strong and massive fort , which acted as the summer resort for the rulers of bharatpur .
aizawl airport is 6km away from the city and taxis and buses are available to ferry passengers to the city centre .
today demak is a sleepy little town , however , its glory of the past is still visible from one of the major relics , which is still well preserved .
try the mutton potraday ( wrapped in leaves and cooked in thick coconut gravy ) , the ravafried seer fish ( not on the menu ) and the ponpallas .
for game fishing , the twin islands of racha yai and racha noi , some 50 minutes out of phuket , offer some of the best local fishing to be had .
yet the mausoleum is different - so different from the pyramid that it earned its reputation - and a spot within the list - for other reasons .
the flora and fauna of these islands , however , indicate that this land connection if it existed should have been prior to the development of their present life form anthropological museum .
the cause for wonder about this nandi is that it has been carved from a single boulder .
hundreds and thousands of visitors come to rajasthan to witness sam sand dunes 's wonderful artistic view of the nature and the place can be best covered with the help of camel safari .
forget the white , the brown and rye in kashmir ; try the local basket of breads .
from the mighty stretches of the karakorams in the north to the vast alluvial delta of the indus river in the south , pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature .
the one single factor that determined aurangabad 's role in the history of medieval india is its location .
by train aurangabad is not located on the main route but some trains do stop here .
his ministers were gorgeously dressed , wore earrings and head dresses , previously reserved for the members of ruling families only .
situated between knightsbridge and chelsea , beautiful belgravia is the salubrious and wealthy area which houses many of the capital 's most eligible figures ! belgrave square and its surrounding streets is also the location of many embassies .
alappuzha beach is a charming and fun place with its 137 year old pier and lighthouse .
there is also large number of birds , which can seen from an exclusive bird watching point and also nice sunset can seen from the fort of park .
the montana territory ( re-sections of oregon , washington , nebraska , dakota , and idaho ) became the 41st state to unite under america on november 8 , 1889 .
stylish and contemporary. with well-maintained lawns , the raddissson is practically next door from delhi s indira gandhi international airport .
kotagiri is 31 kms. from udhagamandalam and the climate of kotagiri is very salubrious which is 6503 feet above sea level .
any foreigner intending to trek in any part of the kingdom of nepal shall have to obtain a trekking permit from the department of immigration , tridevi marg and permits are issued for trekking in any part of the country except in areas restricted for the foreigners by government regulation .
liberation retains a dual meaning in bolivia ; a country of great expanse , extensive lakes and salt plains induce an elated sense of freedom for any traveler .
the annapurna circuit takes one through terraced hills , forests and alpine pastures and through the villages of a number of different cultures .
the entrance to the garden is topped in red sandstone and inside is an interesting bathing tank constructed by a french general .
this court is generally used for the most serious of cases .
skiing is one sport which is not limited to the mighty himalayas or the hill stations alone .
pho khun ramkhamhaeng , younger brother of king si indrathit was thailand 's first great king .
washington contains more than 20 native american reservations , including one of the largest in the country , belonging to the yakama peoples. other native american groups are the pend d'oreille ( kalispel ) , spokane , and makah .
the entire building , when floodlight on sunday evenings , presents a truly breathtaking picture .
the great wall of china , one of the greatest wonders of the world , was enlisted in the world heritage by unesco in 1987 .
the temple of nageshwarnath is said to have been established by kush the son of rama .
another specialty of the region is the exquisite paithani saris also made of silk and gold threads .
mumbai was the dowry of portuguese princess infanta catherine de braganza who married charles ii of england in 1661 .
some of the most spectacular sites for sea canoeing are around krabi and the island of phuket and phang-nga bay .
every window opens out to a fabulous view to lake and minarets of the city .
in kosa silk farm , the silken cocoon threads are spun into the gorgeous and famous bastar kosa saris .
shivaganga is 50 kms from the city center is a hill which provides a breath-taking view of the the nearby areas .
anyone who is interested in temple architecture should head for aihole .
as members of an isolated community , californians spent three decades in political confusion ( at one point , a californian-based republic was declared .
shri haru temple , this important shrine lies at a distance of 5 kilometers from bagheswar in uttaranchal in north india .
as a result , mahatma gandhi gave a call for civil disobedience , which escalated to a mass movement and forced the british out of india .
it is difficult to know what is more breathtaking : the bolivian 's gentle struggle to survive amidst a legacy of poverty and unrest , or the altiplano ascending ever higher .
inside , a martyrs memorial stands on the eastern end , while the well and bullet ridden walls remain testimonials to the bloody massacre .
britto set in a modest portuguese style bungalow , britto s has seating arrangements both on the verandah , and on the ridges that slopes down to baga beach .
janki kund is an unusual cave over the mandakini , said to be the place where sita bathed .
the last indian battle in kansas occurred on september 27 , 1878 , when chiefs dull knife and little wolf of the northern cheyenne fought the u .s . cavalry on present beaver creek , just south of scott county state park .
a part of city palace is now converted into a museum that displays some of the best forms of art and culture .
some ao nang dive shops close during low season , may to october , while some ( ao nang divers for instance ) remain open all year long .
the grand vasant kunj , with a resort like ambience , this is one of delhi s most lovely hotels .
you can book a machan ( watch tower ) near a watering hole for the best viewing of all .
khorat is also the largest northeastern province .
in the field of literature , there is hardly any branch of learning which the people of kashmir had not studied , and to which they did not make their own original contribution .
for foreign motorists intending to pass through erp-priced roads during its operational hours , they can either choose to install or rent an in-vehicle unit ( iu ) to pay erp fees .
the story so far the seeds of the city were laid in 1577 when the fourth sikh guru ram das heard of a pool in the area that had healing powers .
cochin is well linked on the national and state highway network to most parts of southern india .
the handicrafts centre in pelling sells souvenirs and fabrics featuring distinctive lepcha and bhutia weaves .
nature has composed its magic to perfection at kumarakom .
camel safaris in india bring to fore the images of the ships of deserts , treading up the barren sand dunes of rajasthan with their musical trinkets and decorative ornaments provide an appropriate backdrop for a rajasthani bard to let loose his poetic imagination to great value .
the new democratic constitution of the kingdom was promulgated on november 9 , 1990. nepal is one of the founder members of south asian association for regional cooperation saarc of which the third summit was held in kathmandu in november 1987 .
a weak and worthless man raja sahadev was the ruler then .
from its building to its destruction lies a time span of merely 56 years .
the entire city is spread over a 12 km long ridge commanding the view of terraced hillsides and cultivations .
a fascinating area just to the north of the city which is an alluring mix of scruffy old character and trendy new vibrancy .
fortify yourself at the lovely restaurant , where you can sample maratha and nepalese delicacies .
in kashmir pahalgam is the most spectacular .
as with other art forms , musical activity intensified with the arrival of the royal family in 1808 .
garwhal and even karnataka which are part of the larger category of adventure tourism in india .
a poor replica of the taj , it was designed and built by ata ullah whose name is engraved on its door .
the 1st europeans was the french canadians explorer sieur de la verendrye in 1738 .
the barbican is comprised of businesses , exclusive residential flats , the museum of london and the barbican arts centre .
zarda is a sweet rice preparation enriched with dried fruit and nuts .
away from the main tourist humdrum of nainital or ranikhet , almora has retained much of its traditional values and old world charm .
bengkulu is the smallest and lowest populated province of sumatra .
this temple has the distinction of being the largest among all the temples located in this region .
the reign of this king would not be complete without the mention of 'suya ' one of the greatest engineers kashmir produced in ancient times .
the first phase of the ride is easy , through thick peripheral reserve forests of sal .
ask for the rooms that offer views of golcoanda and baradari - the buildings turns ethereal when lit up ( perfect mood setters for evening sundowners .
the king repaired and restored many temples and shrines , and numerous other pious foundations were also made during his reign .
watch the fishermen tackle the deep blue waters as they venture out in the hope of a good catch .
wildlife and exotic flora may be found in the national parks of chiang mai province .
the vishram ghat is lined with elegant temples and some of mathura 's most important shrines are found here - the mukut temple , radha-damodar , murli manohar , neelkantheshwar , yamuna-krishna , langali hanuman and narasimha temples .
they tell us how the mysterious mirror could reflect the light tens of kilometers away .
the temples here are from a later period than those at ajanta ( 350 ad to 1000 ad ) , and include hindu and jain monuments as well .
if you prefer simple needlework , you are sure to like bavalia embroidery which employs the button hole or cross stitch method .
the poshest area of mumbai , malabar hill has attractive residences , including the chief minister 's house and a palatial state guest house .
the metalware of the nagercoil is distinctive as well have a look at the tumblers , water containers , spittoons , bells and candlestands being produced by the bell-metal workers ; you are sure to find something you like .
at bau tlang in aizawl is a typical indian bazaar where locals , dressed in their traditional clothes , sell everything from toys to fresh river crabs .
a few houses in the region offer shelter but it 's a food deficit area , so you will need to be self-sufficient. .
from picturesque konkana to lush green vidarbha , every part of maharashtra is a place to see , to enjoy tourism unlimited .
kenia nula gacha , if the larvae and silkworms are too exotic for you , why not try some snails with sesame ? this traditional naga dish also has red chilli powder and fermented soya beans to add intense flavour .
himachal pradesh offers the manali valley , manikaran and the rohtang pass .
written records about life in florida began with the arrival of the spanish explorer and adventurer juan ponce de leon in 1513 .
when in daman , always choose seafood and your meal is sure to be heavenly .
iowa was a named from the iowa river , which was named for the iowa indians ; the tribal name ' ayuxwa means `` one who puts to sleep .
the five star hotels have good restaurants , which serve authentic mughlai cuisine .
motorbike safari in india is another exciting adventure to experience ! ! ! you can hire a motorbike from any tour operators & travel agents & explore the various faces of india .
due to the large number of fascinating temples dotting the city , ubon is a place of pilgrimage at the beginning of buddhist lent .
until a new building was commissioned in 1887 , there was no church on the site for almost 100 years .
in fact walking is the best way to discover diu s secrets .
savitri is located on hill behind the brahma temple and one has to climb a long series of steps to reach the shrine .
the house was built in 1833 , and retains a lovely old-world charm .
pick up madhubani and gond paintings , dokra work figurines and bengal s famous kaantha embroidery .
the state capital is topeka , other major cities or towns include wichita , kansas city , overland park , olathe , lawrence , salina , shawnee , manhattan , leavenworth .
the discovery of gold in california in 1849 touched off a search for gold in other regions including the rocky mountains and accounted for the first extensive settlement of colorado .
one of the most beautiful mosques in western india , the superbly proportioned jumma masjid ( 1423 ad ) , is constructed in yellow sandstone and has 15 domes resting on approximately 250 columns of various heights .
quirky little knickknacks and export surplus bargains is what you can expect to find in diu .
one can take up several means of transportation like taxis , cycle-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws to move from one place to another in bharatpur .
recent studies suggest that it was erected either on the eastern promontory of the mandraki harbor , or even further inland .
autopass cards are sold at the primary clearance / immigration booths or vep / tolls office at singapore checkpoints .
lofty mountains , a dense flora and fauna , surrounding sylvan environs and miles of expanses of tea gardens meet the passenger 's eye on most routes .
during the day you can tell if they 're sitting by looking for a flag at the top of the nearby victoria tower , which is the tallest and largest of the westminster towers .
in the end the project was simplified , but certain elements such as the large arches at the base were retained , which in part give it its very characteristic appearance .
city palace is situated in the heart of city , it occupies about one seventh of the old city area .
until after the civil war , only free black or escaped slaves came west unless brought by their owners .
the base is carved with floral motifs , of roses , tulips , and narcissi .
it is an arts and crafts fair held at the shilpgram , the crafts village nears the taj mahal .
the central area of central kalimantan is dense and fertile tropical forest , producing valuable commodities such as rattan , resin and the best woods .
his sandals are made of gold , as is his robe . his garments are carved with animals and with lilies .
nearest railhead 15kms away from khatima distance from naintal 119 kms nearest airstrip is pantnagar .
suya , then raised stone embankments , and adopted other protective measures .
parasailing centers are few in the country but still both domestic and international tourists are taking up parasailing in india for the sheer thrill of it .
an adjoining park that silently salutes the martyres througha series of statues adds to the sambore ambience .
with no parallel in the world , the minarets have been so designed that when one is shaken the other sways in sympathy .
once singapore s busiest port in the 1960s , it has been transformed into a popular hangout for locals , expatriates and tourists , with chic cafes , high-end restaurants , yuppie pubs and designer galleries .
the temple of nanda devi , presiding deity of almora and named after the regions highest peak , is built in the typical kumaoni style of stone temple architecture .
gradually europeans started setting up business and trade establishments , the moneyed class taking interest in banking and usury .
settlers were also drawn to other parts of the state , where a profitable timber industry later developed around oregon 's bountiful supply of douglas fir trees .
this ancient temple is one of the most preserved amongst all the other temples of kashmir , india .
3D Gaming Engine
this impressive collonaded building houses the two houses of parliament .
the buddha statue has been placed on the rock of gibraltar in the placid waters of the hussain sagar .
when they later returned to their rugged homeland , they had stories to tell about the amazing gardens and palm trees at mesopotamia .
an amusement park with cable car is being developed to attract more and more tourists in palampur .
if you are thinking of visiting kenwood house , why not purchase a london pass which will admit you to this and many other london attractions for a single payment ; it also includes travel by public transport within the lambeth bridge runs from lambeth to westminster .
it was sullivan who persuaded the initially skeptical directors of the east india company to develop the nilgiris as a sanatorium for sick british troops .
the palace is only open to the public during the summer months , while the queen is staying at balmoral , her scottish castle .
ooty also known as udagamandalam is the queen of hill stations and the capital of nilgiris district .
but the new rulers moved their capital to cairo since they had no ties to the mediterranean .
the illuminated st. philomena church in the evening is a wonderful site not to be missed .
golconda fort is situated on the western outskirts of hyderabad .
the beautiful sun temple konark built in the 13th century in honor of the sun god , contains exquisite carvings , life sized lions and elephants , colossal figures of warriors on horses , scenes of battle and chase - all carved with great imagination and skill , testify to the high standard of ancient indian art and engineering skill .
to this day it continues to be an important place of pilgrimage for the christian community in the country and is also historically important .
suya , then raised stone embankments , and adopted other protective measures .
the maharaja himself designed the palace and nobel laureate rabindranath tagore was an occasional guest .
the earliest recorded history of agra , however , is its establishment by a local king in 1475 .
but kumarghat is insurgency prone so check the current situation before going there .
on the way to the chamundeswari temple , there is a monolithic statue of nandi bull and a mortar statue of mahishasura .
the latest occupants tend toward trendy media types which can be a mixed blessing ! hatton garden is the centre of london 's jewellery trade , and you ' ll see many traditional jews in frock coats and black hats plying their trade .
they were then upgraded to conform to the present day regulations : the old machinery still provides the counterweight power for the dead weights , while the variable parts of the loads were driven by modern high pressure oil pumps and motors controlled by computers .
gajner wild life game sanctuary is a unique place for watching and photographing the famous siberian imperial sand grouse in the mornings , in the winter months , when they come to the lake for drinking water .
the lake has a rest house of the irregation department on the embankment below , the rest house has a beautifully laid out garden interspersed with exquisite sculptures excavated from the ruins nearby .
nandankanan is in chandaka forest , 25-kms from bhubaneswar and is famed for its white tiger population .
nearest underground stops : green park , bond street , hyde park corner .
the spanish were not attracted by the region , however , and it was the dutch who first established a european presence around 1616 .
in mizoram your banking options will be far less than in the other states .
the nagina masjid was built in marble by shah jahan to be used exclusively by the women of the zenana or harem .
that mayfair is the top property on the monopoly board is no idle boast .
edward iii had the jewel tower built c.1365 to house his personal treasures with a moat dug around it for extra protection .
for management purposes , the park is divided into 5 ranges : kisli , kanha , and mukki in the western block , and bhaisanghat and supkhar in the eastern sector .
about 107 kms from the city of aurangabad , the rock cut caves of ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge , in the form of a gigantic horseshoe .
this building looks beautiful and artistic .
the project was conceived by his wife and sister artemisia , and the construction might have started during the king 's lifetime .
a city of love and warmth , sorrow and despair , dreams and hopes , poverty and squalor , grandeur and glory , calcutta is compelling , effervescent , teeming with life and traditions a medley of moods , styles , cultures , politics , industry and commerce .
kullu manali , as a popular honeymoon destination in india is a jewel in the itinerary of hill stations in himachal pradesh .
in the month of ramzan the tomb celebrates urs , when groups of kawwali singers perform devotional sufi songs at the tomb .
the sprawling hill palace museum displays the erstwhile wealth and affluence of the royal family of cochin .
the greatest attraction of the state is its dazzling array of flora and fauna , in a habitat that combines glacial terrain , alpine meadows , and sub-tropical rain forests .
it was the most violent volcanic eruption recorded in world history that caused the destruction , and left more than 30 , 000 dead .
since their rotation sweep is 90 , they are synchronized to form a double beam in a cross that pivots around 360 .
in the south , jammu is a transition zone from the indian plains to the himalayas .
ahmedabad 's climate is hot and humid and the temperature during summer months soars to 45 degrees and in winter dips as low as 5 degrees .
there is an underground cell in the temple premises .
metal structures soon began to find their way into textile factories , into stage construction and glasshouses .
in the month of kerala year , cohingam ( august-september ) , floral carpets , made by women , grace the towns throughout the state ; adorned elephant s parade in thrissur and long decorative boats race the backwaters of alappuzha .
the rohtang pass lies in the district of lahaul and spiti. due to its difficult terrain , not many tourists have ventured into this region .
the temples of bhuj , and even more so of mandvi , are delightfully painted .
sendra island , about 50 odd kilometres from imphal , offers a bird 's eye view of the park and its occupants .
however that may be , the founding of the city is traced back to 1537 and it has seen the rule of the maharajas of mysore mainly .
not exactly a mecca for clowns and acrobats , but certainly a draw for the millions of tourists who visit london each year .
a pleasant town with comparatively slow pace , agra is known for its superb inlay work on marble and soapstone by craftsman who is descendant of those who worked under the mughals .
there are some things that are really hard to find in lakshadweep .
the one to the right , the jawab ( answer ) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the mecca .
at the foot of the hills amidst gardens , commemorative cenotaphs line the silent city mandore .
built in akbars favorite style in red sandstone , this 8 square kilometer complex houses and several buildings , which are an amalgamation of hindu and islamic architecture .
most of these offer quality facilities and services .
bharatpur bird sanctuary , magnificent bird haven has actual came into being , paradoxically , as a duck shooting preserve for maharaja suraj mull of bharatpur .
hien-tsang mentions the arrival of 500 monks to kashmir , and ashoka making a gift of the valley to sangha .
india travel destinations , the site , provides a nature and wild life seeker with a golden opportunity to explore the natural delights offered , by undertaking a tour to chithirapuram , which is a less discovered hill station in india .
for hotels booking in delhi visit : - www.newdelhi-hotels-india.com .
this three storied prison , constructed by britishers in 1906 , is a pilgrimage destination for freedom fighters .
jaipur , also known as the pink city of india , was founded by maharaja jai singh ii ( 1693-1743 ) and is the capital of rajasthan .
a cruise along the vembanad lake is the best way to experience the sanctuary .
marble arch itself stands over a grim history : it marks the spot of the notorious tyburn , which saw thousands of public executions from 1196 to 1793 .
the islamic style of architecture is also referred to as the indoislamic style of architecture .
in avifauna you can find 265 species including the great indian hornbill , peafowl , brahminy kite and black-winged kite .
the maharashtra state road transport corporation runs ordinary and luxury buses from aurangabad to mumbai .
and because of dangerous sailing conditions and flat coastline in the region , the construction of a lighthouse was necessary .
in 1861 , benito juarez was elected president and announced a two-year moratorium on the payment of foreign debts , causing a series of civil wars and conflicts with european and us governments for the next 30 years .
the ram bagh , laid out by babur in 1528 is said to have been the resting-place of his body before it was taken away for a final burial in kabul .
bastar is the land of tribals & natural resources .
indian legend traces the name andaman to a derivation of handuman or hanuman the monkey god of the epic ramayana , who is said to have used these islands as stepping stones on his way to sri lanka , to save goddess sit , consort of lord rama .
mysore also has associations with the mahabharatha and king ashoka of 3rd century b.c. .
jaisalmer , an important ancient trading centre because of its strategic location on the camel trade routes , is often described as the ' golden city .
nainital is situated in the kumaon hills where thick wooded hills , snow capped mountains in the distance and clear pine scented air are a respite from the hot steamy plains .
it is a place which blended with historical places , palaces , forts , old churches , beaches , backwaters , snake boats races , kathakali , museums and the convenience of a big city with towering buildings and business centers .
the name chhattisgarh is not ancient and has come into popular usage in the last few centuries .
this has been the main home of the head of the church of england , the archbishop of canterbury , since 1997 .
it was the first building in france to openly display its metalwork .
rajasthan state transport corporation ( rstc ) has bus services to all the major destinations of north india .
this mystic land of eternal blue hills and beautiful rivers is renowned for its tea , rich flora and fauna , the world famous one horned rhinoceros and other rare species of wildlife on the verge of extinction .
the agra city abounds in restaurants , which offer international and indian cuisines .
honeymooners in india in search of a quiet , walk of solitude down one of the beaches can opt for the quieter version of the coastline in the form of the famous baga beach , which is famed for its slightly more picturesque goa .
alternatively , stroll along the many beautiful mews or grand residential streets - find the very house where agatha christie penned some of her finest mysteries ! south kensington is best visited from the tube station of the same name .
in 1992 , the unesco world heritage committee declared the monument , and the whole city of angkor , a world heritage site .
after a security crackdown , the central government promised various improvements .
warangal in andhra produces the most gruesome tea in all three worlds but fortunately it is served only in tiny steel thimbles .
sostratus , a contemporary of euclid , was the architect , but detailed calculations for the structure and its accessories were carried out at the alexandria library/mouseion. .
chelsea is indeed one of london 's most delightful residential areas and the ideal place for a stroll on a summer 's day .
camel safaris in india are a quit essentially rajasthani affair .
in the garden city you can visit also the maharaja 's palace and government buildings .
there are also some camp sites and paying guest accommodations available .
a festival of art , craft , culture and celebrations , organized by u.p. tourism , it is held every year between the 18th - 27th february .
nahargarh meaning abode of the tigers was built by jai singh to bolster the defense of amer .
glenmorgan lies about 17 km from ooty and there is a winch of the electricity board to transport staff to the singara power house .
other places like flora fountain , bombay natural history museum , hanging gardens , gateway of india are good places of tourism .
raipur offers an attractive alternate road route to kanha national park and route the traveler may also visit bhoramdeo too .
also visit se cathedral , the biggest in goa , church of st. francis os assisi , st. cajetan church , built in the style of st. peter s basilica in rome , church of lady of rosary and nunnery of st. monica .
built in 1901 , the architecture is an interesting mix of mughal and european influences .
although visited by pilgrims throughout the year , this sacred ramkot place attracts devotees from all over india and abroad , on ` ram navami , the day of lord s birth , which is celebrated with great pomp and show , in the hindu month of chaitra ( march-april ) .
the sanctuary 's avifauna includes peacock , jungle fowl , pigeon , green pigeon , wood plucker , quail , gray-partridge , parrot , stork etc .
home of the andes mountain range , it is a thin ribbon of land , 4 , 200km ( 2 , 610 miles ) long and nowhere more than 180km ( 115 miles ) wide .
there are catamarans and speedboat services ( 25 minutes ) from gateway of india to mandwa .
33km from agartala is a botanical garden with a beautifully kept small zoo .
these are hardy people known for their structured village society in which the hereditary village chief still plays a vital role .
there were occasions , however , when the two parties were able to unite to see off a common threat .
the festive kullu darabar held in the holy month of autumn is another key attraction serving as an idyllic honeymoon destination in india for a complete honeymoon in kullu manali in himachal pradesh .
these rooms were originally used for the mullahs to chant the koran and for musicians who played soft indians and persian melodies .
jaipur railway station is located only half a kilometer from city centre , taxis , auto and cycle-rickshaws are available at the station for transfer to places in the city .
the bridge also inspired the famous nursery rhyme ' london bridge is falling down ' ! the current rather dull looking bridge was completed in 1972 .
and the night sky is lit up with the twinkling of a myriad tiny paper lamps sent up on special kites .
the trek winds along the river mandakini , through dense forests , and across roaring waterfalls .
there is a three-day extravaganza , organized in the last week of february , known earlier as rose festival , it was intended to encourage people to walk through the rose garden and enjoy the beauty of roses .
the deeg palace is a strong and massive fort , which acted as the summer resort for the rulers of bharatpur .
apart from this region in india , one can avail of jeep safari in india of a cross-country nature , too , which covers the whole length and breadth of the country in one grand sweep .
also see the community kitchen where 10000 pilgrims are fed daily on voluntary and complementary basis .
the gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh , which symbolizes the gardens of paradise in islam .
under the growing power of ancient greece , the simple doric-style temple seemed too mundane , and modifications were needed and the solution : a majestic statue .
such diverse landscape generates diverse pleasures ; peru successfully offers history , archaeology , sports , beaches , mountains , medicinal springs , nature , fantastic landscapes , friendly people and mesmeric music .
the second group of people of adis , akas , apatanis , bungnis , nishis , mishmis , mijis , thangsos etc . , who worship the sun and the moon god , namely , donyi-polo and abo-tani , the original ancestor for most of these tribes .
gujarat is one of the india s wealthier states with a number of important industries , particularly textiles and electronics and has the dubious distinction of having the largest petrochemical complex in the country .
a million verdant coconut palms lining the rivers lean to examine its reflections on the glassy rivers .
the city is connected to most place in uttar pradesh and around by state and national highways .
popularly known as the ' meadow of gold ' this place is strewn with the loveliest of alpine flowers and surrounded by mountains mantled in fir and pine .
on january 14th every year. something extraordinary happens in bangalore 's gavi gangadhareswara temple .
a new staircase was also installed at the same time .
rajasthan so commonly characterized as the land of chivalry and bravery , is also home to the largest desert of india , the thar desert .
other places of interest include the islamic styled tombs and minarets of dodaveearaja and lingaraja .
camel safaris in india bring to fore the images of the ships of deserts , treading up the barren sand dunes of rajasthan with their musical trinkets and decorative ornaments provide an appropriate backdrop for a rajasthani bard to let loose his poetic imagination to great value .
the best excursion site , desert national park is famous for the black buck , chinkara , desert fox and the great indian bustard .
kancheepuram is the golden city of temples is one of the seven most famous holy cities of hindu mythology .
the development of electric lighting has allowed the tower to be bathed in light in a variety of ways over the years .
the magic of ancient camel caravan could be seen in the present form of camel safari that operates in the thar desert of rajasthan .
the best time to visit allahabad is during the winters between november and march .
it consists of four cabins ; making the connection between the two levels in one go .
myth has it that the place derives its name from it being the city of anantha , the sacred serpent of vishnu .
the valley was again invaded by a mongal and turk invader achalla , but the queen defeated him , and drove away all the foreign troops .
ooty still woos people from all over india as well as foreign countries right through summer , and sometimes in the winter months too .
you do not require permits to visit any of the coastal areas in maharashtra and neither are these towns out of bounds to foreigners .
the throne is decorated with gold , precious stones , ebony , and ivory .
shanti vana is the cremation site of jawaharlal nehru .
calcutta 's fascination defies analysis ; it is an addiction , an affair of the mind and heart .
sample authentic konken cuisine & solkadhi , bangda , pomfret , curry , modak , rice , chapattis , dishes with jackfruit , kokam sherbet and , of course , the world famous devgad alphonso .
the third level elevator was replaced , as was the old spiral staircase , which gave way to a new rectilinear staircase .
opened in 1943 replacing a former pontoon-bridge , it is today one of the busiest bridges in the world .
this place became famous when gandhiji led a huge procession to this place and broke the salt law of the british government as an act of civil disobedience satyagraha in the year 1930 .
a marvelous chhatri with unusual bengali roof and arches , also known as the moosi maharani ki chhatri is situated in this area .
the quiet magical land of 70 villages sandwiched between the states of maharashtra and gujarat , near daman , was under the portuguese , till it got freedom on august 2 , 1954 .
chini ka rauza was constructed by afjal khan-a high official in the court of shahjahan , decorated by glazed tiles on the fa ade , the structure clearly depicts the persian influence in architecture .
this shrine is worth visiting as it has a statue of shri raghunath on his chariot .
dazzling shopping arcades , exciting sport activity , night clubs and discotheques , theatre and music , gourmet restaurants and interesting sightseeing - mumbai offers the visitor a heady mix of all this and more .
horse dexterity in negotiating the narrow bridle paths in the hills every man oeuvre so safe and simple , has to be experienced to be believed .
cochin is well connected by rail to most major cities of india .
major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops .
damania shipping pvt. ltd. operates a regular catamaran service between mumbai , ratnagiri and goa .
inside , some traditions are observed , such as the ringing of the lutine bell , which was taken from a french ship that sank in 1799 .
the gate of all nations is located at the end of two monumental staircases .
himachal was known since the earliest of times as ` ` devabhoomi ` ` , the abode of the gods .
important rivers that flow through the hilly state mizoram are tlawang , sonai , tuivawl , kolodine and kamaphul .
parasailing is carried with great gusto and enthusiasm in places of the order of , bundla dhar near bilaspur and intkali in pabbar valley near rohru in shimla district in himachal pradesh .
here , craftsmen live and sell their wares of marble and stone inlay and replicas of the taj .
bharatpur , however , is famous for its proximity to the keoladeo ghana national park which has the largest concentration and variety of birdlife in asia .
dimapur lies on the north east frontier railway which is connected with delhi , calcutta , guwahati and tinsukia .
rajasthan is a treasure-trove of temples art & architecture .
president 's house , this palace like building was build by the british with a blend of mughal and western culture .
they reconstructed the site of the palace and located the gardens in the area stretching from the river to the palace .
dudhwa tiger reserve is home to a large number of rare and endangered species which includes tiger , leopard , swamp deer , hispid hare , bengal florican , etc .
the house of lords is in recess from 28th july 2000 , until 27th september 2000 .
yet the mausoleum is different - so different from the pyramid that it earned its reputation - and a spot within the list - for other reasons .
alwar has one of the finest wild life sanctuaries in rajasthan sariska , which is an excellent tiger country .
in kumaon , the areas include the kalabaland glacier system the panch culhi , rajrambha , and chaudhara peaks , and the peaks of the nandakot basin on the eastern flank of the nanda devi sanctuary .
for those that have business and more business on their minds , the international tech park in bangalore offers a superb business advantage to corporations seeking a foothold in india , one of the world 's biggest emerging markets .
it is well worth a visit to what londoner 's often call ' buck house ' but it can be very tiring .
the premises of the nalukettu that springs up overnight become the venue of the fair , and highlight the traditional arts and craft of the state .
the commons introduces new legislation but the lords acts as a kind of quality control department and debates the issues again , before they are made law .
ranthambore national park is rajasthan 's first project tiger reserve & named after a 1000 year old fort which stands in the park .
the whole area is owned by the duke of westminster who is great britain 's richest man and a stroll around the impeccable streets will illustrate just why this is .
every tour guide who does agra ensures that fatehpur sikri is also visited .
akbar s vast , beautifully carved ; red ochre sandstone tomb is set amidst a lush garden .
he started performing ' tapa ' at this mountain , under the advice of maharishi vyas , in order to obtain the powerful pasupata astra from indra .
particularly noteworthy are the floral designs on the walls and ceilings , after tipu 's death the palace was used as a secretariat by the british until 1867 .
one story goes they may have been on a shooting expedition , another that they chasing tobacco smugglers .
nearest underground stops : knightsbridge , hyde park corner .
umaid bhawn place is built up of red sandstone & marble and it took almost 16 years from 1929 to 1943 under the supervision of maharaja umaid singh .
mumbai is connected by good motor able road to pune , nasik , mahabaleswar , shirdi , aurangabad , vadodara , bangalore , chennai , delhi , and calcutta .
the tank in the centre , fed by natural springs , is said to have supplied charnock with drinking water , historical buildings surround the square .
this iron gate has the palm prints of the queens of maharaja man singh who jumped into his funeral pyre and committed sati .
the scenery , as it unfolds during the trip , is breathtaking , awe-inspiring and fantastic .
97 kms from ahmedabad , modhera has one of the most magnificent monuments of gujarat .
periods of democratic government alternated with dictatorships .
there , he sculpted and carved the different pieces of the statue before they were assembled in the temple .
rajgir , kusumbi , kushinagar , sravasti and vaishali are other important buddhist sites covered under the buddhist circuit in the states of uttar pradesh and bihar .
the nature and atmosphere of these places is summed up by the story of a recent visitor who was walking through the gas lit courtyards on a dark winter 's night when out of the mist came a gaggle of elderly judges in their full bottomed wigs .
however as the recession of the late 1980 's hit britain , the rebuilding work stopped .
known as , this ancient site with its ramchaura is believed to be the spot where lord rama stayed a night before being taken across the river by nishadraj .
the main entrance to the monument is of red sandstone , with domed pavilions in the hindu style .
ellora caves encompass 34 rocks cut shrines representing buddhist , hindu and jain art .
swabhumi is a heritage plaza that showcases ( really , we mean it ) the best of indian art culture .
stay in the typical huts for a real feel of being in the naga heartland .
major international credit cards are accepted only in larger hotels and major shops .
this place was called kushinara during lord buddha 's lifetime .
on january 14th every year . something extraordinary happens in bangalore 's gavi gangadhareswara temple .
a benarasi silk sari or shawl is traditionally a rich , single coloured textile with patterns woven in gold or silver threads .
four companies of troops from the 24th regiment ( an african american unit ) were sent to idaho in 1899 to maintain order during the coeur d alene mining strikes .
ecuador 's coastal region ( the western lowlands ) is made up of fertile plains , rolling hills , and sedimentary basins traversed by a plethora of rivers that rush from the heights of the andes to the pacific ocean .
these temples have been highly acclaimed by countless tourists , historians , archaeologists and art lovers , for the architectural wonders they are .
seafood platter with squid , kingfish , prawns and crab in apana is highly recommended , as is the pomfret pulao , shark tikka , kingfish curry and tandoori lobster .
oregon became the 33rd state to unite under america on february 14 , 1859 .
central sulawesi province is beautiful region with its mountain ; lakes and dales decorate this area .
this palace was the main seat of the shah kings for many years. here is an exhibit that highlights the life of king tribhuvan .
the name is misleading dakshin is in fact a multi cuisine restaurant in vishakhapatanam .
check out the unusual 500 year old odathil palli mosque built on the plan of a typical kerala hindu temple ; surprisingly for a mosque , it has no minarets or domes .
the principle landmark of hyderabad is the charminar ( four towers ) , the massive arch built by mohammed quli qutub shah in 1591 to commemorate the end of a devastating epidemic of the plague .
the former docklands area , made redundant by changes in shipping that have concentrated on down-river tilbury , has rightly been seen as an opportunity to revitalize the area .
ahmedabad is also a good place to look for traditional jewellery , cotton textiles , handicrafts and a host of other things .
the walls of this temple are decorated with sculptures that date back to the time of the somavamsi rulers .
near the border with east java province is mount lawu ( 3 , 265 m ) , while on the northern side there is mount muria ( 1 , 602 m .
they were then upgraded to conform to the present day regulations : the old machinery still provides the counterweight power for the dead weights , while the variable parts of the loads were driven by modern high pressure oil pumps and motors controlled by computers .
the first known farmers in the region were native americans of the mandan tribe .
william mcgonagall ( 1825-1902 ) found the bridge extremely busy when he visited london and wrote his awful poem ' jottings of london .
the decor in the casa baga , the owners will have you know , has been inspired by bali , which translates into rattan blinds , cool stone floors , appliqued curtains , antique indonesian furniture and tons of unusual object s d art .
the most distinctive features are its white willow-pattern tiles of which no two are alike .
visitors from all walks of life can collect handicrafts of silk , silver and wood produced locally as timeless souvenirs .
railroads were constructed in the 1870s and 80s , luring thousands of european immigrants , principally scandinavians , germans , and czechs .
st. philomena church has been built in the gothic style with beautiful stain glass windows and lofty towers .
damania shipping pvt. ltd. operates a regular catamaran service between mumbai , ratnagiri and goa .
summers are pleasant with bright sunlight and low night temperatures .
national parks & monuments in tennessee include big south fork , great smoky mountains , shiloh national military park , fort donelson national military park , and stones river national battlefield. chickamauga and chattanooga national military park ( partly in georgia .
political leaders seized the moment to obtain a constitution and voter 's ratification by november 1849 , with recognition by the u .s . congress in october 1850 .
nor-khil hotel , gangtok a short walk from downtown , this is a stunning example of old-school sikkimese architecture. nor-khill hotel , palijor stadium road , gangtok .
snow white interiors , avant-grade furniture , muted lights , soothing music . this and stylish rest bar owned by telugu film star nagarjuna is a good place to do some evening star gazing .
a little known poet then , tagore stayed at kunjaban in agartala .
the city is surrounded by hills of the vindhya ranges and the river kham passes through it .
this was for more than 50 years , the only place hyderabadis went to for chinese food even though it s at the other end of town , and always noisy and crowded .
the satya health spa is located in the idyllic setting near the river page , and offers therapies to rejuvenate mind and body .
the temple architecture reflects a huge chariot with 12 wheels drawn by 7 horses .
it includes the cauvery river that originates in the coorg district of karnataka and happens to be the lifeline of the hill 's ecosystem .
there was an outburst of literary activity on a grand scale , and eminent men kallata bhat sura , ratnakar , anandavardhana , muktakana , siva-swamin , rudrata and mukula. kalhan 's mention of numerous temples built and towns founded by the king , and his ministers throws plenty of light on the prosperous condition of the period .
sukhothai is located on the lower edge of the northern region , 427 kilometres north of bangkok or some 298 kilometres south of chiang mai .
bright ajrakh prints are still used , and the region also boasts the highest intensity of bandahini dying the price depends not only on the fabric , but also the number of times it has to be tied and dyed .
there are not too many defenders of the millennium dome around these days .
bairath also has relics of the mauryan , mughal and rajput periods , a mint constructed by akbar , a beautiful mughal garden and a remarkable monument with painted chhatris and wall built by jahangir are other attractions .
the first television trials to use the tower date back to 1921 , and the first regular broadcasts started in 1935 .
on display on the 12th day of the rabiulawwal month of the islamic calendar ( usually november ) is the robe of the prophet , the most prized possession of the dargah .
you ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many indians believe that curiosity conveys concern .
what few people know about this tiny union territory is an idyllic destination for ecotourism amidst unspoiled forests and verdant meadows .
volunteer state , big bend state , tennessee was named for the little tennessee river , which was in turn named for two villages along its shores which the cherokee called tanasi .
madras now called as chennai is popularly regarded as the `` gateway to the south .
the jami masjid was the first building to be constructed within the fort .
it remained an important chauhan stronghold till 1193 , when the afghan mohammed ghori defeated the last hindu ruler , prithviraj chauhan .
the entry of all outsiders , except the hindus , was banned in the state then .
savour sumptuous hyderabadi biryani , shop for pearls and handicrafts , experience their hospitality .
shopping in udaipur is always a delightful experience and it displays excellent handicrafts and works developed by local traders .
a large wall that is almost 20-feet high surrounds this huge temple .
sector 17 is the main shopping centre of the city , with rows of glittering showrooms .
if stainless steel untensils are your weakness , then chennai is the place to shop for them .
mahua kothi is not only comfortable and eco friendly , its guides are excellent they love to park and it shows .
today , descendants of the two tribes live in the meskwaki settlement , an area of land around tama in central iowa that was bought back from the government in 1856 .
now declared a protected national park , one can see over 300 species of migratory birds , including the endangered siberian cranes coming to nest in winter .
since the 10th century , ubon ratchathani , or simply ubon , was part of the khmer empire until the kingdom of ayutthaya conquered it .
if you want to some pastoral pleasure , try any one of the farms that have tied up with haryana tourism to welcome you into this simple , blissful world .
then , adding spice to the admixture is the bypeen island , which is popular for physical activities of the order of swimming with the star attraction being the occasional but widely awaited appearance of the mysterious dolphins .
a l.o./m.g. shall in the event of dispute or undesirable incident arising between any member of the party , porters and locals shall try to settle the depute by his own efforts .
run by a muslim family that has lived in bhopal for generations , koh-e-fiza is simple , hygienic place where you can have your fill of authentic bhopali nawabi cuisine .
the scenes depicted in the murals vary from hunting , feasting to scenes bearing an erotic tinge .
the site india travel destinations ensures that you have access to information related to tour packages and online tour booking for temple tours to rajasthan , india .
there has been a bridge on this spot since the 1760 's , though the present one is about 100 years younger .
hotel imphal , itdc hotel is a spot of luxury in the otherwise simple imphal .
gujarat is an important centre of industry and commerce in the country .
chamunda devi temple has artistic carvings on its lintel , pillars and the ceiling .
prior to 1640 , the state of illinois including both sides of the mississippi river from prairie du chien , wisconsin to the mouth of the ohio , and then south along the west bank to the arkansas river .
once the royal residence of emperor akbar , the museum houses a rich repository of the mughal and rajput armor and exquisite sculptures .
a wide variety of hotel accommodation is available , ranging from deluxe hotels with all the conveniences including conference and business facilities to reasonably priced standard hotels to low budget establishments with few frills but tolerable rooms and bathrooms all depending on what you would like to spend .
skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience , which does not require special gear like other sports of the same genre .
a dinosaur is the provincial symbol ever since remains of these great beasts were unearthed in phu wiang national park , an area also famous for its flora , fauna and waterfalls .
nainital is known to the frequenters of this hill station in india as the district of lakes .
one of the few hill stations that predated the british , the town still has cobbled streets and fascinating stone houses with exquisite carved wooden facades .
there is also the tir and thali dance of the dhodia and dublas , when they whirl to the beat of the double sided cylindrical drum .
amidst all this hectic activity , the city offers itself as an ideal base to explore the fascinating and culturally rich state of karnataka .
other attractions in the itinerary followed by india travel destinations are the buddhist center of worship , tawang monastery and the immensely popular parsuram kund .
climate summer months between may and august are hot and dry in amritsar when day temperatures go beyond 40 c .
the bansuli temple is located at nannur in west bengal , india .
the british called shimla the `` queen of hill stations `` . situated in the north-west himalaya .
during your temple tours to jammu and kashmir , india you must go on a tour to vaishnodevi. vaishnodevi is one of the most sacred hindu pilgrimages .
for these days , the ancient monument comes alive with classical dance performances , ghazals and qawwalis , the haunting strings of the sarangi and sitar , and the smells and tastes of culinary delights at innumerable food stalls .
the rich is slightly fried before cooking in mutton stock , in the typical dum pukht style .
the vaishnodevi sacred shrine is situated inside a cave on top of the trikuta mountains in jammu and kashmir , india .
a meandering pool , which runs through the property , is charming enough to keep you sitting by its side till sundown .
of special interest and attraction can be the lush , green and magically blue colored nelakurinji , which impart a celestial tone to munnar as an ideal honeymoon destination in india for honeymooners in india .
the green , jade like stone found in the forested district of balaghat is carved by local craftsmen into delightful boxes , trays and images of deities .
regarded as the symbol of krabi , khao khanap nam are two mountains that are roughly 100 meters tall , separated by maenam krabi and located at the entrance to krabi city .
the sky is filled with colorful kites , as in the rest of the country , and children have the best time of it , with fierce competitions over the kites .
sadly nanking s dingy interiors can be a complete put - off but there s always the take - away , give the dessert a miss .
it is open on all days except fridays from 8 am to 5 pm .
it was with the establishment of the monthon , a former administrative unit , that all three cities were merged into one under the name chaiya .
the traveler will note traces of indian buddhist art in the earlier works ; more recent works depict all walks of life and activities in a local setting .
lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd friday to sunday of december every year at hyderabad and nagarjunasagar to highlight and celebrate the buddhist heritage ' of andhra pradesh .
in addition , the museum exhibits a collection of apen or folk paintings .
the chinese were the earliest known travelers on the famous silk route which passed through these magnificent ranges and recorded their impressions of dark mountains , rope bridges and mighty glaciers .
the digging revealed the temple 's foundation and the road to the now swampy site .
today , in spite of ravages of time and vagaries of nature , the colors of fresco still glows .
it is situated on the banks of the river beas on the lower reaches of the himalayas .
step into any large provisions store and stock up on the spicy masala mixes responsible for those all-time-favaourite curries : xachuti , cafreal , balchao , and vindaloo , you can have them all at home .
mount abu s bazaars perhaps are fascinating as a kind of `` living museum of contemporary indian kitsch .
large sums of money began to be turned into political power and leading politicians increasingly became tainted by connections with drug money .
marble steps surrounding the building platform led to the high terrace which was approximately 80 m ( 260 ft ) by 130 m ( 430 ft ) in plan .
bandipur has a sizeable population of wild elephant , spotted deer and sambar , gaur and flying squirrel , four horned antelope , nilgiri , langur and sloth bear .
topography of surat jhani province has created 14 river basins including tapee , pum duang , tha thong , tha krajai , chaiya , tha chang which are the most important basins .
some of the well-known performers are : maria bethania , alcione , roberto carlos , cazuza , ney matogrosso , rita lee , milton nascimento , hermeto pascoal , fafa de belem , chitaozinho and chororo , elba ramalho , alceu valenca , luiz gonzaga , luiz gonzaga jr . , joao bosco , djavan , ivan lins , marisa monte , and elis regina .
chamba is also famous for its local festivals .
to build the statue , his workers cast the outer bronze skin parts .
the grounds of the museum have a display of ancient sculptures , while the interior houses a collection of ancient terra cottas and stone sculptures .
the fort also has miran saheb ki dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter .
you will not find such craftsmanship anywhere else .
cochin is a cluster of islands dotting on the magnificent emerald lakes which in turn open to the sea , making the city one of the finest natural harbors in the world .
aurangabad , the closest railhead , is directly connected to mumbai , delhi , agra , and bhopal .
according to legend the statue of the main deity was set up by the saint adi shankaracharya in the 8th century .
thao suranari festival is held from late march to early april and features parades .
clerkenwell green is surrounded by particularly attractive buildings including st. john 's priory , the british headquarters of the order of st. john whose ancestors were heavily involved in the crusades to the holy land .
khajuraho is a much sought after honeymoon destination in india as visits to the locale and advertisements of the place showcase .
the lofty allahabad fort , built by emperor akbar in 1583 ad , on the bank of river yamuna stands close to the sangam .
ubadya the local version of gujarat s undhiyu is well loved in silvassa and khanvel , especially in winter when it helps warm the bones .
california was officially made a territory with the end of the mexican-american war february 2 , 1848 , nine days before gold was discovered at sutter 's mill .
in smaller places , where accommodation will probably be in local rest houses , you can spend as little as a hundred rupees daily for a room , meals and transport .
potters to create beautiful horses , tortoise , elephants , bells , decorative pots and urns , ashtrays and penholders gather clay from the indravati riverbed .
although it is not a practice to tip , you may wish to do so for excellent service , on top of the service charge levied .
aggressive and great go getters , the people trade in fields of agriculture , bicycles , woolen garments , dairy products , hosiery and textiles .
the shopping likely to cost you dear , but you can find some exquisite antiques and lovely paintings by lesser known indian artists .
theyyam is a ritualistic amalgam of worship , dance , music and mime , played out in front of shrines in honour of the deities , with the most spectacular headgear and ornamentation .
today , surat thani is an important commercial and shipping hub for rubber and coconut trading .
you can really cut a dash with these .
the hall , which has a collection of hunting trophies , has now been converted into a museum .
the newest source of income for many reservations in new mexico is gambling .
rock climbing can become complex because it involves the interplay of many elements you , your gear , your skill and technique .
delhi rejoices every november-december when the fabulous qutub festival of classical music and dance comes around .
a beautiful artificial lake constructed by maharaja jai singh in 1910a . d . is a popular spot for outings and picnics .
shimla has the thick growth of forests of oak , pine , fur and rhododendron .
trango towers it is a freestanding shaft culminating in the trango group , located on the left of baltoro glacier .
dosas : why dosas , you must be wandering. isn t that tamil nadu s culinary gem ? well , contrary to popular notion karnataka makes some of the best dosas .
for a luxury with a conscience , head to the orchid , an ecotel boutique hotel in mumbai .
for those who just want to go along for the ride , the scenery is as breathtaking as the activities .
in munsiyari , situated next to a waterfall , wayfarer mountain resort offers a fabulous view of panchachuli .
the first race to enter himachal pradesh was proto-australoid followed by mongoloid and the aryan .
ellora known as verul in ancient times , it has continuously attracted pilgrims through the centuries .
in 1896 , idaho became the fourth state in the nation to give women the right to vote .
to this day it continues to be an important place of pilgrimage for the christian community in the country and is also historically important .
situated close to the mattancherry boat jetty , the synagogue and the ancient jew town built in 1568 a.d. is of great historical importance .
hyderabad , the fifth largest metropolis of india , is the state capital of andhra pradesh , known for its rich history and culture with monuments , mosques , temples , a rich and varied heritage in arts , crafts and dance .
for indo western wear , i go to bandhej and to ogaan for formalwear. says vasundhara das , singer and actor .
in manglooor you may visit the tile , boat making , coffee curing and cashewnut factories , st. aloysius chapel with its 100 years old paintings , shrimati bai memorial museum , beedi factory , jain temples , fort , saib mosque and music gallery .
heli safaris to the roof of the world a great opportunity for those who have limited time but still like to have a bird s eye view of pakistan s northern paradise .
kollam and alleppey hit the tourist map as the launch pad for the backwater cruises .
the biweekly train to pakistan , samjhauta express , has recently been discontinued by the indian government due to escalation of cross border hostilities .
when the mirror was brought down mistakenly , they did not restore it back into place .
the average temperature of this area is 21o - 32o c with rainy season on october to april and dry season on april to october .
the sun temple in konark , orissa in india was constructed sometime in the 13th century and is an excellent example of ancient indian architecture .
the basket makers , native americans , settled in colorado s arid mesa country before the beginning of the christian era .
discover the real maharastra while you soak up the soft sands .
the amazon region can be geographically divided into two sub regions : the high amazon and the amazon lowlands .
group choreography breaks new frontiers with artistes experimenting with different styles and combining aesthetic ideologies .
the walls , turrets , and stables were built around 16th century ad only for the purpose of war .
if you are a little adventurous , try the meat of the mithun ( a cross between a cow and a yak ) , usually prepared during special occasions .
bara shingri glaciers is the largest in himachal pradesh ; it falls in the chandra valley of lahaul and feeding the river chenab .
taxis are the only available option to explore aizawls surrounding sights ; you can rent one or share it with other people .
ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in pakistan with species ranging from the world 's smallest surviving mammals , the mediterranean pigmy shrew , to the largest mammal ever known ; the blue whale .
east kalimantan is the widest province in indonesia , broadly region is about 245237 , 80 km2 or about one a half point of java island and madura or 11 % from indonesia region wide total .
in 1606 king james i of england granted to two commercial companies the right to colonize virginia , a name the english used broadly to describe the atlantic coast of north america .
do try this cashew cookies and osmania biscuits , named so because it was served to patients at the osmainia hospital .
bhimtal is even larger than the naini lake , which reflects the surrounding .
the center covers a large area with a collection of local fruits , flowers and economic plants .
look up north and you will see a mighty nation , whose feet are washed by three oceans .
it was round about in 855-56 a. d. that karkota rule ended , and a new utpal dynasty assumed power in kashmir .
the palace of the nawab and the janjira caves are also a must for the tourist .
temple friezes often inspire the motif for these pieces of art , and ornate reproductions of gods and goddesses are among the more popular themes .
katra jaimal singh near the telephone exchange in the old city is good for shopping .
for the tastes of the orient , there is only one restaurant in town worth its wasabi zen serves cuisines from japan , thailand , korea , singapore and malaysia .
mumbai is the headquarters for both , western and central railways and regular train services connect mumbai with all the major towns & cities in india .
held over nine nights , navaratri celebrations in gujarat see young men and women looking their best .
in kumaon , the areas include the kalabaland glacier system , the panch chulhi , rajrambha , and chaudhara peaks , and the peaks of the nandakot basin , on the eastern flank of the nanda devi sanctuary .
georgian in character and adorned with 800 acres of rolling heath land , hampstead has always been a centre for literary activity and the intelligentsia .
jag mandir , fateh prakash palace , crystal gallery and shilpagram are some of the best monuments and sites situated in the surroundings of the udaipur .
surat thani is a city with a long history ; archeologists believe that it was once a community of prehistoric tribes of indigenous people including the saemang and original malays who built their communities on the tapee river basin and ao ban don .
the sidi bashir mosque with its twin jhulta minars ( shaking minarets ) which has been one of the city s prime attractions for centuries .
although they share the western coast , lush , unspoilt environs and a heritage and landscape forever marked by portuguese colonists , daman and diu and dadara & nagar haveli have markedly different experience to a traveler .
from manak chowk , one can walk into the lanes where the famous carved havelies are to be found .
the largest statue is 34.5 meters ( 113 feet ) high and the smallest a mere 2 centimeters ( 0.79inches ) high .
the tradition and the subsequent establishment of numerous tea estates made ooty into a much-visited hill station in india .
participants are advised to bring heavy woolen clothing like caps , socks , gloves , mufflers , pullovers , trousers , wind proof jackets , dark glasses , gum / snow boots and a troche for personal use .
this ancient temple is a fascinating piece of architecture as every wall on this temple premises is intricately carved .
this shrine is of immense religious importance to the hindus .
cidade de daman is one of the most popular hotels , with facilities including a lovely swimming pool and a restaurant set right next to the beach .
no ultra smart , elegant bars and restaurants in this predominantly pilgrim town .
westward is doi suthep , a mountain named after the hermit whose modest cave is just above wat phar that doi suthep .
spanish rule lasted until the early 19th century after suppressing several rebellions , the spaniards were finally overthrown in 1822 , by a force backed by simon bolivar , fresh from victory in colombia .
according to historical records this ancient temple was destroyed sometime in the 13th century and was later rebuilt .
a land opposite , from the peaceful stetches of silences and the beauty of the himalayas to the noise of pious crowds offering up prayer .
opposite the bank of england , it is the official home of the lord mayor of london .
best places to buy kasuti embroidery are : priyadarshini handlooms , opposite municiple corporation circle , dharwad ; karnataka handllom development corporation , second floor , enkay complex , hubli .
the sight of people trying to balance a series of pots on their heads and doing so with consummate ease is quite a sight .
white settlement began with the black hawk purchase , after which iowa became part of michigan territory .
the growing number of visitors queuing up to experience the uniqueness of the himalayas , it is essential to protect its fragile environmental balance .
many ancient chinese emperors , like emperor qin shi huang , genghis khan ( 1162-1227 , grandfather of kublai khan who is the first emperor of the yuan dynasty ( 1271-1368 ) ) pushed the yellow river civilization to a wholly new level of refinement , grace and spirituality which drew the attention of the whole world .
for tourists , bangkok has a feast of attractions to offer .
the city is famous for its majestic forts , palaces and beautiful lakes which attract tourists from all over world .
you will be spoiled for choice in goa long stretches of pristine sands , magnificent churches and cathedrals , rambling forts that have stood guard over sea for centuries , sprawling spices plantation and delightful old portuguese villas .
the white marble came from makrana in rajasthan and the red sandstone from fatehpur sikri .
just to the south of this the area becomes more attractive : the delightful hammersmith bridge built in the 1880s links the north and south banks of the thames and has recently been fully restored .
bangkok is especially along the `` venice of the east `` timeless canals and the chao phraya river of the `` river of kings `` winding through the city .
the monastery was built in the mid-1970s at durpin dara and consecrated by the dalai lama .
there are a number of small islands around port blair which fall within the marine national park and are uninhabited and covered with virgin forests on them ; daily excursion to various such islands takes one to beautiful secluded beaches .
there is wonderful tarpa , where tribe dance in circle around a musician playing a wind instrument made from gourd ; there s the acrobatic dhol dance of the warlis and koknas during which they form precarious human pyramids .
but those among them which can be identified justly by their extant ruins , the great fame which lalitaditya enjoyed as a builder .
buy the best baluchari saris in baluchar , 211 km from kolkata .
yet a young and trained mind and body up to the physical challenges of a competitive life needs to experience the harsher face of nature in order to be fit to the task of survival and furtherance of oneself .
not surprisingly the diu fort has a history fraught with strife and war .
each tribe developed its own signatures style and this is most apparent in the case of embroidery .
they lost their independence with the rise of the guptas in the north gangetic plains .
the country is geographically divided into the amazon , the highlands , the coast , and the galapagos islands .
finished in by marvel , taj is perhaps india s most fascinating and beautiful monument .
the chenna kesava temple of belur built 900 years ago is an exquisite example of hoysala art .
in 1902 , phraya ratsada korsimbi , a sino-thai businessman who contributed to developing the modern city of phuket was appointed governor of phuket .
this is normally in the himalayan range of jammu & kashmir , himachal pradesh , uttaranchal & in the eastern himalayas .
regular luxury buses are available round the clock and special trains like the shatabadi express and intercity express .
the mehtab bagh s forestry plantations and agricultural fields provide a green forecourt to tajmahal and its reflection in yamuna .
the southern side of the palace is open to public and has been named `` rabindra kanan .
installing public elevators on the tower raised many technical questions , since there had been no previous experience in elevators climbing to such heights and with such loads ; the slanting tracks with various angles further complicated the problems .
the archipelago of colon ( commonly known as the galapagos islands ) is made up of 13 main islands , 17 islets , and dozens of ancient rock formation .
the lepakshi showrooms are good for silver and wooden accessories , and pulla reddy is the last word on traditional andhra sweets .
as you surely know by now , meghalayans eat a lot of pork and rice and this dish is a rather deadly combination of both-rice cooked in pig s fat with ginger , onions and turmeric .
ranchi is well known for its scenic attractions , water falls , barren rocks and hillocks .
palampur has beautiful gardens and lovely walks .
the state also boasts beautiful golf courses like the aravali golf course and highway golf course in karnal .
instead we have been left a beautifully landscaped park designed by john nash , with features including a boating lake , rock gardens , sunken gardens and rose gardens .
run by a british couple yogamagic is almost militantly ecofriendly right from the fantastic all vegetarian cuisine to facilities built from organic resources such as cow dung , rammed earth and bamboo .
down river from devprayag , the ganga changes into a pool drop river .
5 kms from almora , has a magnificent view of the valleys and soaring peaks of kumaon .
instead , the letters have been inscribed densely at the bottom , with little plain surface in between ; the inscription becomes more and more sparse as it rises with plainer surface in between the letters .
a keenly contested event , this rally is an inimitable display of well maintained cars of yesteryears .
the fort lies 1 , 100 meters above sea level and enclosed within its fortified ramparts are palaces , temples , fields , water sources and farms fully self-contained to withstand a long siege .
temple at somnathpur is well preserved and not to be missed .
even though most people come here to enjoy either the well developed devka beach or the quieter and more pristine jampore beach .
a list of approved travel agents / tour operators is available at the local india tourism office / state government tourist office .
with increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level , business protocol adheres to western standards .
shreyas retreat : this boutique yoga retreat combines ashram - style life with five star luxuries .
the andaman and nicobar islands have great maritime importance .
the sri ganesh moni pradhan nursery and the udai mani pradhan nursery are among the most important in the area .
french settlement of florida began in 1562 as huguenots , french protestants , established themselves on the st. johns river not far from the spanish settlement at st. augustine .
in 1954 democratic nominee for state attorney general , albert patterson campaigned to clean-up phenix city and deems it `` the wickedest city in america .
other crispy chicken to begin with , move on to the hot and spicy wanton soups and try bamboo shoot noodles with roast pork or lemon chicken for course .
here , too as tourism with a difference , the tourist only needs to be aware of the basic skill of swimming as the boat easily accomplishes the rest of the tugging part .
the ashram is called brindavan and any public transportation will take you there , though auto rickshaws may make a bit of noise about the extra charge you ought to pay .
once the guesthouse of the maharaja of dhar , and the venue for banquets and fancy dress balls of british officials the jhira bagh palace is an elegant heritage hotel today .
south india 's legendary king tipu sultan held bekal fort before losing it to the british east india company .
during the 17th and 18th centuries , baroque and rococo patterns imported from portugal dominated brazil 's religious architecture and its interior decor .
constructed in the pattern of apartments , the amar sagar haveli is a five story high haveli adorned with beautiful painted murals .
the vegetarian fare at tirupati is a good as the temple s laddu prasadam , the uluva pulusu at traditional nellore homes is ald so good .
roman catholic church was demolished by the british when they took over cochin in 1795 .
the designer of taj mahal was ustad ahmad lahauri .
though the government claimed it was necessary for security reasons , the effort was driven largely by greed .
some 248 indians , including women and children , were fleeing rom confinement and starvation on the reservation in oklahoma ( indian territory ) to their home lands in yellowstone .
the nearest airport to khimsar is at jodhpur , which is 80 km away ; there are daily flights from jodhpur to delhi , mumbai , udaipur and jaipur .
the territory north of the gila river ( including much of present arizona ) was ceded to the u .s . in 1848 , when the treaty of guadalupe hidalgo ended the mexican war .
shimla is home to the vast natural flora of the order of cedars , poplars and rhododendron trees .
meals are served in a spacious , airy dining cum sitting room with a marble floor and a fish tank bar .
more than a cooking school , the prestigious raffles culinary academy also conducts lifestyle classes covering a range of topics such as wines and etiquette , how to plan a party , home dining , as well as lessons on oyster and foie gras appreciation .
himachal is full of lovely little places , guesthouses tucked away , far from the teeming crowds .
later the tower was also celebrated by le douanier rousseau , signac , bonnard , utrillo , gromaire , vuillard , dufy and chagall .
cookery magic offers a wide variety of classes in malay , indian , mediterranean , vegetarian and baking amongst many others .
dining out at the magnificent leela palace kempinski is an event in itself .
due north , chankheli peak ( 3 , 201 m . ) looms large across the deep mugu karnali gorge.the usual itinerary is a loop that starts and ends at jumla and the entire trek takes about ten days. food has to bring from jumla but beyond the bazaar it is often unavailable .
bhoramdeo jungle retreat , kawafdha , set amid forests , with the maikal hills rising gently in the background , and the silence broken only by the chirping of birds , this red roofed farmhouse offers comfortable , clean rooms and reasonably good food .
the plains tribes united to fight the settlers , but were defeated in the indian wars ( 1861-69 ) and the buffalo war ( 1873-74 ) .
for air - conditioned shopping luxury in a large open space , you have to head straight for the gopalan malls in bangalore .
helambu valley noted for its scenic grandeur and pleasant climate , lie in the north of the kathmandu valley .
in kumaon , the kail ganga ( sharda ) flows down from the nepal border through kumaon hills .
kashmiri sheermal is thick and mildly sweetened .
no trip to goa is complete without an edible souvenir in the shape of the famous sweet dish , bebinca , a 16 layer egg and coconut milk cake , mostly had during the festivals and other occasions .
the lalgarh palace was built by maharaja ganga singh and is situated 3 km north of bikaner city .
in the east , baltistan shows an affinity with tibet ; in fact , its language is a dialect of archaic tibetan and many remnants of tibetan culture can still be observed , in the gilgit region , shina is the dominant language .
chidambaram is located at a distance of 250 kilometers from chennai the capital city of tamil nadu , south india .
madhya pradesh is truly the heart of india ; not just by the virtue of its location , but also because of its rich and varied heritage .
punnami taramati is at the historic doorway pavilion that abdullah qutb shah built for his courtesan taramati .
india is a vast countryu and its physical boundries are spread far and wide .
dense forests , serpentine roads , cool bracing breeze , moonlit nights must have persuaded the english to call this place which possibly sums up nature and heart of netarhat .
the construction of a railway station in the city as part of the southern railroad in the reign of king rama vi resulted in making hua hin stand out from many quite fishing villages .
it is this size impression that made the statue so wonderful .
surrounded by mighty karakorams and stunning black mountains , malam jabba is more that just a ski resort. it is a holiday resort that caters to all interests and is also home to the remains of ancient civilizations .
there are also unique handicrafts that you can buy here and of course you must try our food .
foot guards from the household division , in their distinctive red tunics and black bearskins , can be seen on guard duty outside the palace daily .
this estimate has been made keeping in mind urban india .
even its population gathered from all those diverse ethnic and cultural groups , which compose indonesia , are constantly juxtaposed present reminder of the national motto ; unity in diversity .
gwalior s traditional rag dolls , available at most fairs and marketplaces , are sure to charm .
the other places that you may visit during your temple tours to haridwar , uttaranchal , india are the anandamayee ma ashram , jai ram ashram , the daksha mahadev temple and the sapt rishi ashram .
dibrugarh is one of the major tea producing centers of the subcontinent .
it is a popular belief that the temple deity grants wishes to all those who pray to the deity with complete devotion .
activities bird watching , excursions to the monasteries dotting the rambling countryside and even working in the fields with the villagers .
bombay now called as mumbai is the capital city of maharashtra .
a mini garden with an amusement part for children and a toy train are added attractions at ooty lake .
the construction of a summer palace of king rama vii totally transformed the village into a high-society resort town for royalty .
listed among some of india s more offbeat festivals , the karaga festival is one that tests an individual s sense of balance-both that of the body and of the mind .
city palace is a magnificent structure , the palace occupies one seventh of the walled city of jaipur and is a wonderful blend of rajput and mughal architecture .
the jeep safari not only refreshes and revitalizes but one feels close to nature while diving through the quiet and beautiful countryside .
boparais organization is running a camping site at barog in district solan .
this was to prevent tobacco smuggling from coimbatore .
shimla is surrounded by pine , cedar , oak and rhododendron forests .
the monumental labor of love of a great ruler for his beloved queen .
the ` ` great eruption ` ` of krakatau must have taken place around 416 ad , as reported in ancient javanese scriptures .
a trip to the sam sand dunes marks the grand finale , where one can enjoy camel rides and brilliant performances by the folk artistes under the full moon against the backdrop of picturesque dunes .
honeymoon is a period of exploration of the selves and the life partner , which requires a retreat far away from the maddening crowds , and the cacophony of the day-to-day life .
shortly after the death of alexander the great , his commander ptolemy soter assumed power in egypt .
the monarch realized its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north india and also built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy sangam .
there are quite a few monuments within the fortress such as the diwan-e-khas , sukh niwas , the jai mandir , sheesh mahal and the temple of victory .
sandwiched between oxford street and marylebone lane is one of london 's most appealing areas .
for conducting personal meetings there is ` ` amba vilas ` ` in this floor .
carved out of the former state of assam , meghalaya is one of the seven sister states of the north-eastern region , bordered by assam in the north and bangladesh in the south .
jawahar balabhavana - bal bhavan whizzes you into childhood .
liberation retains a dual meaning in bolivia ; a country of great expanse , extensive lakes and salt plains induce an elated sense of freedom for any traveler .
mumbai is a city that is disciplined by no time frame-neither by day nor night .
mysore was the capital city of hyder ali , tipu sultan and the entire wodeyar clan .
kirti mandir is a national monument , as it happens to be the birthplace of mahatma gandhi .
at amravati , the remains of the buddhist influence in the satavahana period include majestic carvings , chaityas , viharas , murals and panels .
several centuries later the portugese took possession of the island .
the tour guides are volunteers who belong to the ' friends of high gate cemetery ' and their enthusiasm for the cemetery is contagious .
camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between indian and china , when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels .
telugu is the main language of communication though the muslim rule has paved the way of urdu also .
the tower 's artificial illuminations have been constantly revised and improved throughout the years , taking advantage of the latest innovations in lighting .
indian nations need no permission for trekking in any area , outside the inner iine .
dalhousie is situated 563 kms from delhi and lies on the outer slopes of the dhauladhar range of the himalayas .
for those who want to turn cycling in to a keenly contested game , there is cycle polo too in rajasthan .
in the center of the building is the hall where the cochin rajas held their coronations .
the ruins of the old fort and the temple of jambwa mata bear testimony to the first settlement of kachhawahas before they moved to amer .
the village has a number of interesting antique shops and cafes .
his career was marked by a large number of fine buildings , among which two of the most outstanding are the twin edifices of the porto viaduct and the garabit viaduct in the cantal region of france .
overlying the foundation was a stepped podium which sides were decorated with statues .
also visit the vijay stambh with nine storeys and 37 mts high built by maharana kumbha to commemorate his victory over the muslim rulers of malwa and gujarat in 1440 .
as a result of this conference , large number of kashmiri intellectuals took to missionary work and hundreds of the wisest sons of the valley carried the torch of indian civilization and culture to many parts of central asia , china , tibet and other places .
the advent of christianity resulted in the conversion of the people residing inthe hills , while the majority of men from the plains continued to be hindus .
this ramp , coated with mud and water , eased the displacement of the blocks which were pushed ( or pulled ) into place .
mahatma gandhi marine national park at wandoor is ata adistance of 29 km from port blair , covering an area of 281.5 sq km .
but it seems fitting that the continent should be the site for numerous global research stations , proving it remains testament to human endeavor .
indeed , the market now draws in 100 , 000 every weekend and sells virtually anything that can be placed on a market stall .
the planetarium is located on sankey road and has shows on all days except mondays from 6.15 hours .
the region is also home to a number of species of snakes , tortoises and crocodiles , especially the snout nosed indian gharial .
it was believed to have been built with machinery instruments for observing the movement of stars and planet .
these andaman and nicobar islands shimmer like emeralds in the bay of bengal .
the walls , turrets , and stables were built around 16th century ad for the purpose of war .
the gir national park is a mixed deciduous forest with teak , flame of the forest , some acacia and banyan trees .
in the field of philosophy kashmir 's contribution is the ` ` shiva school of thought ` ` , which assumed a distinctive character in the valley .
most hotels have in house restaurants , which serve indian , chinese , thai and continental cuisine .
the tower project was a bold extension of this principle up to a height of 300 meters - equivalent to the symbolic figure of 1000 feet .
the aravali hills have good climbing faces at dumdama , dhauj and nuh , all situated near delhi .
one of three museums clustered in sector 10 , the government museum and art gallery contains a modest collection of indian stone sculptures , miniature paintings and modern art .
the entrance is through a huge gateway that blocks view of the tomb from outside .
abode of untold grandeur and glory , where the rich heritage of the wodeyars is carefully preserved to this day in its magnificent palaces , gardens , broad shady avenues and sacred temples .
chamunda devi temple is an ideal picnic spot throughout the year because it has an easy approach and a commanding view .
delhi is in turn connected with calcutta , by indian airlines flights .
khwaja ishaq shami , one of his predecessors settled in a hamlet called chishti near hirat .
a dip in the arabian sea in the beaches of a gothic goa can be a memorable occasion for some of the honeymooners in india who visit goa as a premier honeymoon destination in india .
jaipur also serves as the most convenient entry point to rajasthan , india 's most colorful and vibrant state .
the mughal dynasty reached its highest strength and fame during the reign of their early emperors , akbar , jehangir , and shah jehan .
there are quite a few interesting places to visit in gujarat , india .
rajasthan is the most colorful region in india exhibiting splendor and royalty in every walk of life .
susa , the administrative capital , was located 500 km north of persepolis .
intimate yet bright , the grill is popular with both locals and tourists without ever becoming oppressively packed .
there is a vast prayer ground at this ashram that has its own historical importance .
one of the most perfectly executed rock cut chaityas with elaborately carved interior .
you can use auto rickshaws to move around within alibag .
you can find information about tours of the houses of parliament here .
amidst all this hectic activity , the city offers itself as an ideal base to explore the fascinating and culturally rich state of karnataka .
within kisli , kanha , and mukki ranges , certain roads and areas are also closed to tourists .
the snake park will interest of visitors of all ages .
the havelis , built by merchants of the 19th century , are exquisitely carved from golden-yellow sandstone and are still in a beautiful condition .
situated near the airport , the small hillock is believed to be the place where the apostle was killed by his assassins .
further up regent street lies oxford circus across which runs oxford street .
maharashtra is one of the better administered states of india , the roads and public utilities are in good condition .
the temple has well grafted gardens. it is also known as the birla mandir .
local transport within the city is provided by city bus service and taxis can be hired from the airport , railway station or through hotels and travel agencies .
the main entrance to the mosque is through the buland darwaza ( the grand gateway ) , which was built in 1576 , it is 54 meters high and commemorates akbar s victorious return from his campaign in gujarat .
kotagiri is 31 kms. from udhagamandalam and the climate of kotagiri is very salubrious which is 6503 feet above sea level .
the city palace was built by maharaja jai singh ii and is a synthesis of mughal & rajasthani architecture .
visit calangute beach extending along the arabian sea in an inward arch of about 7 kms which is very popular with the visitors .
his son , nebuchadnezzar ii ( 604-562 bc ) is credited for building the legendary hanging gardens .
colorful crowds from all the surrounding villages congregate at this place to celebrate the festival with much enthusiasm .
bangana-lathian-piplu attract tourist during winter season especially , when they propose to visit other religious places like jogi ponga and naina deviji .
the star shaped temple at somnathpur is a splendid example of hoysla architecture .
the fossil remains of elphas-hysudrious obtained in the lower ' karewas ' point to lower pleistocene age ` ` , writes de teera .
the builders of the taj mahal knew that the reality and its perception and interpretation there of differed .
jumma masjid built in 1423 ad , is outstanding for its grand scale , superb proportions and exquisite workmanship .
there are festivities all around and agra truly puts on the colors of joy and gets transformed into one nonstop carnival .
mumbai is well connected by major national highways to almost all parts of the country .
periyar has a few nilgiri tahr , good numbers of which may also be seen on a day excursion to nearby eravikulam national park near munnar .
there are many old temples to visit besides enjoying the picturesque environs .
perfect in execution and sublime in expressions khajuraho temples are a dedication to the womanhood .
the individual sections were n't connected until the qin dynasty ( 221-206 b.c. ) .
with an estimated crowd of 3 million tourists per year taj attracts about 15000 visitors per day .
kerala shares its western border with the arabian sea .
this famous stupa is known for its massive gateways that were constructed by the rulers of the satavahana dynasty .
a great view of the hills of myanmar is a memory that you ll cherish always .
the ancient artists of ajanta covered the rough walls with a layer of mud and cow dung , mixed with straw or animal hair as a binding medium .
the article says that ` ` to build [ the itaip dam ] , workers re-enacted a labour of hercules : they shifted the course of the seventh biggest river in the world ( paran river , at the brazil / paraguay border ) and removed more than 50 million tons of earth and rock .
being set in the high ranges of the western ghats in kerala , periyar is spread in a tropical forest area , a mixture of deciduous , semi-evergreen and characterized by tall trees , and a closed canopy .
once the royal residence of emperor akbar , the museum houses a rich repository of the mughal and rajput armor and exquisite sculptures .
this is true even for the smaller roads that meander off from the main bombay-goa national highway and transport you to offbeat locations .
indian airlines and jet airways both connect trivandrum with the rest of the country with frequent flights from mumbai , delhi and chennai .
rallies were shortened to 750 kilometers as long as they were part of the national championship and that made competition very tight .
there are also nearly as many touts as tourists ! beware of them and stay with registered guides. however , no matter how many times you ' ve done agra and the taj mahal , their attraction never fades .
tourists can still enjoy the same desert experience in the sam sand dunes in jaisalmer , rajasthan , where special cultural performances are also organized by the rajasthan tourism department for the entertainment of tourists in the evening .
for seven days , the country 's most accomplished classical dancers , as well as upcoming talent exhibit their talents and hold an international audience spellbound .
wildlife areas , camping grounds and trekking facilities would be few of the prime attractions .
the main tomb has a unique square design which is unparalleled by all other mughal buildings .
the panorama overwhelms the onlooker with a sensation of fright , fascination and respect for the perfection of nature .
while the 17th-century capital , paramaribo , with its attractive colonial architecture , is a good starting point for any visitor , surinam 's main attraction is its tropical rainforest , which covers nearly 80 per cent of the country and is home to a huge variety of wildlife. known as the ' oriental republic ' because of its location on the eastern bank of the rio de la plata , uruguay is one of the smallest of the south american republics .
visitors are treated to some of the most fabulous dance performances .
these tourist complexes have been set up along the national / state highways and at districts , towns and at places around delhi .
the best way to experience the real magic of thar desert of rajasthan is with the help of desert safari .
for centuries , the lighthouse of alexandria ( occasionally referred to as the pharos lighthouse ) was used to mark the harbor , using fire at night and reflecting sun rays during the day .
gilbert , henry james , mohammed ali jinnah ( the founder of pakistan ) jawaharlal nehru ( the first prime minister of india ) and the earl and countess of bradford .
the buddhist stupas are the earliest architectural monuments that date back to 230-500 ad .
these films are meant to give information about the universe or any other topic related to that .
singing maina , saint guru ghasidas of satnami samaj , mahaprabhu vallabhacharya of vaishnav samaj and the great poet and saint kabirdas also hails from this state .
this place has some religious importance , as it is also the birthplace of the legendary character sudama , who was supposed to be lord krishna 's best friend .
an amazing fact , but true , this fire has been kept alive for almost a thousand years .
there is also a fine collection of sculpture and armory in the museum .
abdali and taimur lane were no different they had tried their best to demolish the city of delhi but it was some kind of a boon which helped it to regain its lost glory each time delhi was plundered .
ootacamund or udagamandalam ( the tamil version of the original name ) rightly described as ` ` queen of hill stations ` ` by pandit jawaharlal nehru , now sprawls over an area of 36 sq km with a number of tall buildings cluttering its hill slopes .
taraporewala aquarium was opened in 1951 and has an interesting collection of marine and fresh water specimens .
the nc mehta museum houses a spectacular collection of miniatures from various indian painting schools .
himalayas are known as the one of the youngest mountain ranges in the world and is counted among the best trekking regions in the world .
these faces unlike the more sporting nrhru trophy race at alappuzha in august are essentially religious , based on a temple festival .
the itaip hydroelectric power plant is the largest development of its kind in operation in the world .
once a sultry tropical archipelago of seven islands , and the raj 's brightest jewel .
ajanta caves are 106 kms from aurangabad and date back to the 2nd century bc .
a perfect combination of arts and design , city palace is known for its advancement in technology and architecture .
10 kms west of bhubaneswar are the udaigiri caves , which were occupied by the buddhist monks as early as the 2nd century bc .
today , the london eye has become , quite literally , the way the world sees london .
the western ghats has mumbra and dudha beyond pune .
the people are literate and well off , living in neat and clean villages they depend upon fishing for their livelihood and very little agriculture occurs here .
pay a visit to the picturesque aruvikkuzhi waterfalls located 18km from kottayam town , 2km down a mud lane from kumarakom is this beautiful picnic spot where streams tinkle as they make their way through the landscape and waters roar as they cascade down the mountains from a height of100 ft .
located at the crossroads of ancient trade routes , the city survived on toll and taxes collected from traders .
the average daily move is about 150 kms consisting of approximately five to six hours of jeep driving .
with their vast open spaces , above the snowline , the grahwal and kumaon hills of uttaranchal , offer a plethora of ski locales .
this fort was considered as invincible during the period when the royal family reigned from here .
chamba has a number of temples , palaces and stylized buildings .
you ' ll find elaborately fashioned jewellery , the multi-colored ' bandhini ' fabrics , richly decorated handlooms , and other trinkets at the colorful bazaars of jaipur .
also desert safaris staying at camp in pushkar .
chennai has a blend of dravidian and gothic architecture in its buildings and the city might have grown but it has never lost its traditional grace and charm .
this includes the ceremony of the state opening of parliament .
the airport lies 10km to the northeast of the city ; auto rickshaws , taxis and tourist buses will take you to your hotel or the city centre .
more important , however , delhi blends within its folds the great cultural variety of india ; an unceasing range of activity , a million ways of saying ' you are welcome .
inland waterways which flow above land level are an amazing feature of this region .
hotel tax is presently 10 % and an additional 10 % is billed as service tax .
there is also an old lighthouse which is greatly fascinating to visitors .
manufactured by schneider creusot loire and using the best engineering and electrical machineries available , it was upgraded in 1995 with new cabins and computer controls .
some of it has recently been restored .
it was moved to its present position in 1867 when the holborn viaduct was built .
the project was commissioned by the rhodian sculptor chares of lindos .
recent archeological excavations at the site revealed gifts from pilgrims including statuettes of artemis made of gold and ivory earrings , bracelets , and necklaces artifacts from as far as persia and india .
agra is famous for snacks and sweets like dalmoth and petha , for which the most recognized area is kinari bazar .
many important rivers originate in the mountains and flow through the state ; they include the mighty ganga , yamuna , ramganga , gomti and ghaghara .
unfortunately the building is not open to the public .
furthermore , the heathrow express leaves paddington station every 15 minutes , arriving at the airport just a quarter of an hour later .
of course , the city became alive every year during the dance festival in march , when the maestros of classical dance , birju maharaj and kelucharan mohapatra and their disciples perform against the dramatic temple backdrop .
with a blend of fun and excitement , jeep safari in thar desert of rajasthan covers some of the most magnificent destinations of rajasthan .
the architects who built the taj mahal made the canals and the waterworks in the garden , with the purpose of generating an upside down image of the taj , to gel with the divine inspiration .
near delhi gate is feroz shah kotla , close to this is kept the ashokan pillar which was brought from meerut by feroz shah tughlaq .
throughout the country 's colonial history , bolivia was known as ' upper peru ' , until after simon bolivar led the country to independence in 1825 , when it was named in his honor .
also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize .
opposite the old police station or the kotwali is the sunheri masjid from where nadir shah ordered his troops to plunder and massacre delhi .
if you are thinking of visiting kensington palace & the orangery , why not purchase a london pass which will admit you to this and many other london attractions for a single payment ; it also includes travel by public transport within the london area on buses , tubes and trains , zones 1 - 6 .
however , the focus on tourism is , indeed , gradual , and as long as any visitor is aware of their impact upon the landscape and does their utmost to limit that impact , antarctica is still a magical experience that most , given the chance , would find hard to resist .
mumtaz mahal s last wish to her husband was ` ` to build a tomb in her memory such as the world had never seen before .
on the one hand it is apparent that the tree has been much better years ; a 1905 photograph capture it standing tall , robust and bushy before what were then the secretariat offices .
the guildhall clock museum next door has over 700 clocks and watches on show .
navigator pedro alvares cabral founded the first european settlement on indian soil at cochin in 1500 .
agra attained full glory in the mughal period , from the time babur captured it in 1526 .
the acoustics of the building are superb with the domed ceiling being designed to echo chants from koran and musician s melodies .
all foreign tourists visiting nagaland require restricted area permit used by the minister of home affairs , govt. of india , south block , new delhi .
the cochin also has an outstanding network of road , rail backwater , and a modern communication system .
a sign posted walk runs along the path of the wall between these two locations .
also worth seeing are the ethnological displays in the on hgb road , agartala .
they expanded the mysore kingdom on an unprecedented scale and by their resistance against the british , became personages of world fame .
true it is that the kashmiri at literature is very rich in information about kashmir .
glaciers pour down from the himalayas almost on to the site of camping at sonamarg .
because of their height and spread , garhwhal and kumaon , like other sectors of the himalayas , are in a position to offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing the year .
a huge dome , rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the taj mahal .
after 93 years of wear and tear , it was replaced in 1982 with two electrically powered sets of two counterbalanced cabins , running all year round .
orissa s main attractions are the temples of the capital bhubaneswar , the long sandy beach at puri and the great sun temple at konark .
agra with its riches of architecture splendor , bazaars and ornaments is amongst the most outstanding cities of the world .
like the rest of rajasthan , kumbhalgarh experience really hot summers while winters are a bit colder with temperatures hovering between 11-25 degrees celsius .
many of the islands are surrounded by fringing reefs , often several hundred meters wide and separated from the shore by a lagoon of similar width .
the entire indian coastline is situated between the tropic of cancer and the equator .
jodhpur is still one of the leading centers of wool , cattle , camels and salt .
located on janpath , national museum is one of the treasure houses of our glorious past .
inside the premises of the shrine is a tank which is surrounded by many other tombs .
any time is a good time ! alibag has a range of accommodation options , from luxury hotels to mid budget motels and economy lodges .
allahabad is on the main broad gauge trunk line between delhi and calcutta .
the ayodhya is closely associated with lord rama , the seventh incarnation of lord vishnu .
however a modern scholar peer zada hassan has given a brief record of these kings from a persian work composed during the time of sultan zainul-abdeen ( 1420-70 ) .
the ' baradari ' pavilion was built by shah jahan , to facilitate his long stays in ajmer .
ice skating in shimla , normally begins in early december and carries on to february .
these constructions are very ancient in their origin and are quaint by the presence of minarets with nandi bulls perched atop the minarets .
you could also visit aurangabad between october and march , when the weather is pleasant .
indulge yourself at the lush spa pavillions or soak in the roman poole , and lt your worries be washed away , as you are srubbed and kneaded .
one of the more well known rallies , till about a few years back , was the himalayan car rally , which has since been discontinued .
inspirational faith gave birth to classic forms of thai religious arts. images of the lord buddha sculptured during the sukhothai era are cultural treasures which impart a feeling of peace and serenity .
the climate of mississippi is characterized by long , hot , and humid summers and generally mild winters .
near the gardens of taj mahal stands the mughal monument known as red fort of agra .
allahabad is divided in two distinct halves by the railway station with the orderly grid patterned civil lines and adjoining districts forming the central and northern parts .
today , ecuador remains a multiethnic and multicultural nation , where more than 14 indigenous groups maintain their own traditions and ways of life , to the delight of visitors .
you must visit this ancient temple during your temple tours to assam in india .
to the north of the ridge is a breathtaking view of the trident shaped trishul peaks .
there are domestic flights from delhi , khajuraho and varanasi four times a week .
the buland darwaza , an imposing gateway 54 m high was built to commemorate akbar 's aligarh the famous university town is a center of islamic studies .
these lovely pavilions were constructed by the mughal emperor , shah jahan .
for great indian and chinese food , we heartily recommend dimori cove , where naga dishes are served on advance order .
french canadians , swedes , norwegians , danes , germans , and irish were among the first foreign-born settlers of minnesota .
everyone knows of the gorgeous chanderi and maheshewari saris , but also try to pick up the elegant bandhini or bandhej textiles directly from the weavers .
the classic tanjore paintings , inlaid with gold leaf , glass and precious stones , furnished in the chola capital of tahnjavur .
the paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of buddha and various buddhist divinities .
the beauty , richness , and climate of california - - as well as a lack of options for bankrupt miners - - kept the population here long after the gold mania died down .
standing on zhongshi street which is opposite to puqing bridge , chengxu taoist temple was built during 1086 - 1093 of the song dynasty and also known as sanctity hall ( shengtang hall .
udaipur is the historic capital of former kingdom of mewar and now the administrative headquarters of udaipur districts .
manori beach , maharastra travel guide , north of mumbai , and away from its busting crowds and pollution , are these three gems that have become popular havens for mumbai 's beleaguered fun lovers .
thiruvanathapuram district is home to the internationally renowned beach resort of kovalam , with three adjacent crescent beaches serving as key honeymoon destinations in india for honeymooners in india .
pine forested mountains echoing with the sound of the gurgling streams rushing down slopes does this sound like fairy tale land .
bharatpur , the ' gateway to eastern rajasthan ' acquires its own importance in the tourist map of india .
regarded by travelers from all walks of life as being among the most beautiful tropical islands of the world , phi phi islands have become one of the most popular tourist attractions in thailand .
this temple , dedicated to lord krishna , was built in the 8th century ad under the patronage of the pallavas .
located at a distance of 16 km from jaisalmer , lodurva was ancient capital of jaisalmer .
the most meager that your budget can get is $ 25 per day of your stay .
they being , marpas , sherdukpens , membas and khambas who live in the high mountains and are rumoured to have their origin in burma and thailand .
jama masjid in delhi is the largest mosque in india , and was built by shah jahan in 1956 ad .
government central museum has a rich collection of ivory work , textiles , jewellery , carved wooden objects , miniature paintings , marble statues , arms and weapons .
birla mandir is one of the landmarks in new delhi - the capital of india .
pick from a variety of short courses such as `` quick cooking for dinner parties `` , `` asian cooking class `` and `` survival cooking for teenagers and children .
baia do sancho , baia dos porcos and praia do leao are among the ten most breathtaking beaches in brazil .
they were replaced in 1897 and 1899 by the fives-lille machinery , relying on hydraulic accumulators , 16-meter long main pistons , cable loops and manual controls .
nagarhole national park s dense deciduous forests are the habitat of the tiger , leopard , gaur , elephant , sambar , chital or the spotted deer , wild boar , pangolin , langur , macaques and about 250 species of birds , including the magnificent malabar pied hornbill and the great black woodpecker .
the most imposing excavation is , without doubt that of the magnificent kailasa temple ( cave 16 ) , which is the single largest monolithic structure in the world .
chamba has a number of temples , palaces and stylized buildings .
kozhikode ( erstwhile calicut ) was once the seat of power of the malabar .
to a brit , the ' city ' does n't mean the whole of london but simply the 'square mile ' ( actually 1.08 square miles ) as it is colloquially known .
there are some high mountain ranges in the south such as bantad range and phanom dongrak range which border ubon ratchathani and the lao peoples democratic republic and the kingdom of cambodia .
there are many temples in chiang mai , chiang rai , lamphun , lampang , mae hong son and nan where visitors can enjoy the lean about the northern history and architecture .
the various ethnic tribes in the hilly areas have colourful festivals such as lui-ngai-ni and kut .
hyderabad has always been more than an amalgam of monuments , mosques , minarets , mansions , mandarins and memories .
delhi now has mega-size malls to rival both gurgaon and noida , these sprawling outlets bring the world s best right to your shopping bag .
this great architectural specimen is one of the most grand and impressive temples dedicated to the hindu deity , lord shiva in orissa , india .
visit kohima with its immaculately preserved war cemetery or khonoma village with its beautiful terraces carved out of hill slopes .
the perfect accompaniments are the sweet n salty osmania biscuits or the onion filled chhota samosas .
this temple was built by rani rashmoni in 1847 .
its textiles became much sought after and even today , the weavers of aurangabad produce fine textiles like pathani , himroo and kimkhwab .
numerous daily flights service iguassu falls from airports throughout brazil , connecting through sao paulo .
situated at an altitude of 1 , 401 m , bhaktapur ( or bhadgaon as popularly know as ) covers an area of four square miles .
a boat from ao nang village can be hired for sightseeing excursions around ao nang , hat tham phra nang and hat nam mao , all of which are only accessible by foot .
udghamandalam ( ooty ) located at a distance of 105 kms from coimbatore is a gem in the repertoire of places in nilgiri hills and the hill stations in india .
during your tours to temples of tamil nadu , india this is one temple town that you must pay a visit to .
when you re in the midst of a coffee , , spice and vanilla plantation , living in a luxurious colonial planter s bungalow , then it s not often that you think of climbing a tree .
noodle bar , new restaurant is fast becoming everyone s favourite for oriental food and try out the many different types of noodles they can make , or simply order the plain old chill chicken , it s all guaranteed to be delicious .
he was a great conqueror who extended the boundaries of the state in all directions .
four-day padi open water courses have risen to 10 , 000 baht .
you can pick from a variety of items , ranging from pretty appliqued bags and brightly coloured batik jackets to hand-woven shawls and blankets .
elections in 1970 brought unidad popular , led by the marxist dr salvador allende , to power .
about 38 km from port blair , this havelock island boasts of virgin beaches , and an unpolluted environment .
however , the focus on tourism is , indeed , gradual , and as long as any visitor is aware of their impact upon the landscape and does their utmost to limit that impact , antarctica is still a magical experience that most , given the chance , would find hard to resist .
originally intended to be an irrigation tank ooty lake was dredged out during the years , 1823-1825. .
jambi province is located on the east coast of central sumatra faces to malaka straits sharing borders with four other provinces in sumatra and has long a melting pot for different ethnic groups .
there is an underground station nearby , named after the house , although it is actually nearer to bank station .
1575 ad emperor akbar founded the city in by the name of illahabas which has now become allahabad meant .
besides being poised to make its culinary stand as a fine dining bistro , the coriander leaf strives to establish itself as a centre for different food-related activities , namely a culinary school .
chamba is ancient capital of pahari kings situated on the bank of river ravi at an altitude of 996 meters .
regular bus service connect bangalore to belgaum , bihar , bijapur , mumbai , coimbatore , goa , hospet , hyderabad , chennai , madikere , madurai , mangalore , mysore , tirupati , nandi hills , chanrajaragar , jog falls , ootacamund ( ooty ) , raichur , ernakulam , gulbarga , pondicherry , calicut , dharwar etc .
the schools estate is a 80 year old estate in coorg , once home to one of the districts missionaries , is enormous , old fashioned , and very cosy .
flores is a portuguese name , which means ' flower ' and ideally describes the beauty to be found here .
this time however , the action was more restrained , and damage kept to a minimum subsequently , elections were held and the people of punjab voted in the religious akali dal .
chitral , an area which was focus of the great games , at the turn of the 19th century , is a land of ancient forts , rivers , springs and unique culture .
there is no seasonal constraint on traveling in and through nepal , even in december and january , when the winter is at its severest , there are compensating bright sun and brilliant views .
the ancient city of patan , lying 5 km southeast of kathmandu , is known as the city of fine arts .
this colourful market north of cst , also known as mahatma phule market , was built in 1869 .
this temple is of special significance as it finds a mention in ancient devotional hymns sung by the hindu nayanmars sometime in the 7th century .
hotel sentinels is the urban traveler s upmarket choice , this is your best chance of enjoying seafood the hot n spicy jumbo prawns and lobsters especially in a plush setting .
the former british residency , overlooking the artificial lake , ana sagar , has now been converted to the circuit house .
dharamsala has risen to international repute as `` the little lhasa in india .
mount abu was described by someone in the 1930s as `` a sort of shimla of rajputana `` , a small colonial hill station set , surprisingly , in the deserts of rajasthan .
uttar pradesh is a land of cultural and geographical diversity , which is blessed by an innumerable perennial rivers , dense forests , and fertile soil .
the gateway to the northeast , assam is wedged into a green valley with the himalayan foothills in the north and the state of meghalaya in the south .
you will find yourself drawn to return .
the most notable place of worship in the district of bilaspur is the temple of shri naina devi ji .
the engineer , and his expertise in calculation and construction , came to have an increasingly important role in architecture .
telugu is the main language of communication though the muslim rule has paved the way of urdu also .
today in brazil , popular music continues to explore new rhythms and new melodies .
the crab comes with its shell and you are given a chisel , instead of regular cutlery , to dig you way to the meat .
the 1st europeans was spanish explorer cabeza de vaca may have wandered across southern new mexico between 1528 and 1536 .
the ganga golden jubilee museum has a large collection of pottery , paintings , carpets , coins , and armory .
the ambience of the dera restaurant is as far removed from the dhabas of the city as possible but it is a great place to sample the robust non-vegetarian cuisine of punjab and the north-west frontier .
tripura bhavan , kautilya marg , chanakyapuri , new delhi110011 ( ph 91011301 5157 ) tripura bhavan , 1 pretoria street , calcutta ( ph 91033242 5703 ) tripura tourism , palace compound agartala ( ph 910381225 930 / 223 893 ) agartala is best visited from october to may .
pattaya currently integrates the delights of a 1st class beach resort , city-like dining , shopping and night entertainment facilities with more than 300 assorted hotels , thousands of shops , restaurants and bars .
a walk through one of these inns is often like stepping back in time , especially if you happen upon a barrister in his obligatory eighteenth century court attire .
the kheer bhawani temple is the pilgrim centre of the goddess maharagya devi .
the chukh is the signature ginger-garlic chutney from chamba .
palm grove eco resorts has something foe everyone , the more adventurous can go for treetop huts .
ghagra choli , while the men fuss over their colorful turbans and starched kurtas .
pachranga is a brand name that any self respecting pickle would be proud to belong to .
ellora is connected by regular bus service to aurangabad , the trip takes around 45 minutes .
it clearly reveals intimate cultural contact between the valley , and plains of india in the 10th century .
public buildings and churches in european style can be found in many other towns such as visakhapatnam , vijayawada , vizianagaram , machilipatnam and even tirupati .
and the rapids of snow-fed rivers are ideal for white water rafting .
in kanha you can even meet tara , the elephant made famous by mark shands in his book travels on my elephant .
the very mention of fragrant mutton biryani from lucknow , the spices dancing in your mouth , the meat falling off the bone . it is enough to drive anyone to poetry .
the parmeshwar mahadev temple is located at a distance of 4 kilometers from the main haridwar city in uttaranchal , india .
the waynad region is home to malleswari peak , which is home to an india renowned shiva lingam .
immigrants , families and workers added to overall state diversity and helped fuel a chicago-area boom in which the city gained population for the first time in 50 years .
the three great acharyas of this school are vasugupta , kallatha and the great abhinavagupta. hundreds of other kashmiri philosophers , and thinkers wrote masterpieces on this philosophy in the subsequent periods of our history .
skiing in india perforce refers to the various centers of skiing , which undertake skiing in india as part of a larger picture of adventure tourism in india .
kullu valley is known all over the world for heliskiing .
do n't fall for tempting exchange rates offered by unauthorized people .
in 2000 whites made up 86.1 percent of the population , blacks 5.7 percent , asians 1.7 percent , native americans 0.9 percent , and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 5.5 percent .
this is 500-year-old standing still in time .
a towering 130 feet structure called the houses images of important hindu saints and divinities .
nebraska showed continued growth until the farm depressions of the 1890s .
there are regular rooms available , but if it s a family holiday , opt for gruha - cottages in the midst of pavilion ed lawns , each with its own a private varandah .
for more information please contact mu ko lanta national park , no.5 , tambon ko lanta yai , amphoe ko lanta , krabi 81150 .
chandavaram is located on the right bank of the river gundla kamma in pakasam district .
falaknuma palace is a masterpiece designed by an italian architect .
the restaurant , trident hilton , you can choose here from pan indian , continental and even thai cuisine ; also available are some oriya fish and meat dishes-try chinggudi mahoori , shrimps cooked with vegetables , and you won t be disappointed .
these include the venetian trader marco polo after who has been made the wild marco polo sheep in the thirteenth century , the chinese monk fe hien in the fourth century and the arab historian , al-beruni in the eleventh century .
the plantation economy was shattered by the civil war although the state continued to be a powerful agricultural region .
adding to it all other facilities is fantastic view of upper lake , just two minute away .
kunjan nambiar used to perform in the chakkiaars , groups of drummers , and he fused his style , thallu with images and themes from mahabharata and ramayana in a way unique to keralese art forms .
the slender coconut palms standing here , there and everywhere , its never ending paddy fields , meandering lagoons and backwaters , mangroves nesting birds of a hundred varieties can peacefully calm and invigorate your mind with renewed inspiration for your vocation and life .
bodhgaya is an excellent place to study buddhism , and rajgir , nalanda and sasaram are interesting places which are not on the tourist trail .
a major landmark howrah bridge , now so much a part of the city that calcutta is inconceivable without it .
kufri is known for trekking and hiking trails .
chamunda devi temple is an ideal picnic spot throughout the year because it has an easy approach and a commanding view .
aerial photography of mountains / speaks enroute to northern areas and chitral is allowed after seeking permission from captain of an aircraft .
the beautiful 6-yard paithani sari is woven with pure silk yarn and gold thread ( drawn from pure gold .
includes live commentary and a souvenir guide map ( map in seven languages .
now ferozabad has diversified into a whole range of glassware , but it is still the lovely bangles in glittering shops all over the town that draw the crowds .
the monument was dedicated to the savior gods : ptolemy soter ( lit . savior ) and his wife berenice .
to reachtham chao le cave , boat trip taking a 10 to 15-minute from laem sak .
without a doubt , the rock cut monuments at ajanta and ellora are the prime attraction for people visiting aurangabad .
the valley soon fell a prey to mongol and turkish raiders , free booters and foreign adventurers .
if you wind your way through the alleys of chandani chowk , you will still find tiny shops selling irresistible spicy snacks , including papri chat , gol gappas , dahi pakora , kanji vada , kalmi vada and raj kachoris .
the patna museum is located in dedarganj and is the oldest museum in bihar , established in 1917 .
woodville palace is offered 28 rooms spread over four acres of lush greenery .
in the domain of architecture , the charm of kashmir , apart from its magnificent natural scenery , lies in its temples and fine arts .
kancheepuram is the golden city of temples is one of the seven most famous holy cities of hindu mythology .
lavi , held in november every year in the sleepy hamlet of rampur bushahr on the banks of river sutlej , this centuries old fair is hugely popular and well attended .
in case a l. o. / m . g feels that a porter is very sick and is not being evacuated , he shall ask the leader to arrange for his evacuation .
jain temples are situated inside the fort of kanali on the hills overlooking the betwa .
unakoti means one less than a crore and it is believed that that s the number of carving you can find here .
panchrandga pickle started 1920s by a man named muralidhar dhingra .
the fate of the nawabi rule was sealed in the battle of plassey and the english went ahead to seize power , a grip which loosened only 250 years later when power was transferred from the british empire to the indians .
but at the end of the journey , you will be rewarded by views of saddle peak ( the highest on the island ) and kalpong the only river in the andamans .
strategically positioned in the archipelago , the city is also the principal gateway to the rest of indonesia. from the capital city , sophisticated land , air , and sea transport is available to the rest of the country and beyond .
all water sports are for those adventure seekers for whom land is not enough .
the city dominated by the massive mehrangarh fort on a rocky hill is charming with its wealth of historic attractions and colorful markets which specializes in antiques .
the air-conditioned super fast shatabdi express connects ajmer to delhi most conveniently .
camping sites provide all the magic of the jungle , the nocturnal sounds , bright lit skies and tales around a crackling camp fire , all make a heady cocktail .
however as the recession of the late 1980 's hit britain , the rebuilding work stopped .
the park does not provide accommodations , but camping in the park is allowed although tourists have to bring their own tents .
bikaner is also one major hub for the tourists looking for an adventurous camel ride , which gives an insight into the exquisite lifestyle of remote rajasthan .
one can see vidyarthi bhawan s hyperactive waiters balancing as many as 15 plates of dosa at any time .
indian legend traces the name andaman to a derivation of handuman or hanuman the monkey god of the epic ramayana , who is said to have used these islands as stepping stones on his way to sri lanka , to save goddess sita , consort of lord rama .
vadakkunath temple is believed to have been built by sage parsuram himself , who is said to have reclaimed kerala from the sea .
once a sultry tropical archipelago of seven islands , and the raj 's brightest jewel .
these trees housed some of the most exotic birds , all of which added to the breathtaking environs of the taj .
ahmedabad has a goodly number of 5 star hotels with conference and convention facilities , health clubs , sports clubs and swimming pool , foreign exchange bureaus , in house multi cuisine restaurants et al to hotels where the frills may be sadly lacking but relative costs should more than compensate .
it is best to go by yourself , and bargain hard .
the other shopping centers are new market , ritz market , bazar bungkawn , thakthing bazar , burma lane and solomon cave .
while on temple tours to this region you will find that the walls of this ancient temple are adorned with sculptures of dasavataras that depict lord buddha as an incarnation of lord vishnu .
historically famous palnadu war and first and foremost tax non cooperation movement in 1921 were the happenings in this district .
to celebrate their unity , the rhodians sold the equipment and used the money to erect an enormous statue of their sun god , helios .
constructed largely of wood , tipu 's palace is known for its five elaborately decorated arches surmounted by exquisite minarets , and paintings on the walls and ceilings .
a unique feature of the city is that hyderabad is the only city in the south , where the major language spoken is urdu .
in 1724 the french code noir extended from the french west indies to the north american colonies , institutionalizing slavery in mobile area .
the highest elevation is mt. hood in clackamas-hood river counties at 11 , 239 feet while the lowest elevation is the pacific ocean at sea level .
fort of st. jerome is an early 17th century structure which has three bastions , one major gateway facing waterfront and a smaller exit gate facing the landward side .
colorful belgian chandeliers add to the beauty of the synagogue .
in fact , fulham is now an area filled with wealthy young professionals ; a number of smart bars and restaurants have sprung up as a result and there are some good pubs including the white horse on parsons green which has been voted london pub of the year on numerous occasions .
the temple itself is dedicated to shiva and is a natural cave caved out of a monolithic stone .
reached in about a week from jumla , the centre of attraction is lovely lake phoksundo , famous for the ever-changing colors of its waters .
this city can be visited anytime of the year but the best time to travel in and around aurangabad is between october and march , when winter temperatures make the days pleasant , perfect for sightseeing .
the usual south indian staples apart , the breakfast menu includes the akki roti , malnad kadubu ( pyramid shaped idlies wrapped in coconut leaf ) , raagi dosa and avalakki ( beaten rice ) , some or all of which comprises a superlative meal .
all peaks / routes for mountaineering have been designated as open zone or restricted zone .
the finest examples of woodcwrving are found in tiruchirapalli , coimbatore , salem and dharmapuri and are associated with temples .
yet another delightful resort from the welcomeheritage group , judge s court heritage resort spectacular white country manor is set amidst extensive litchi , plum , citrus and mango orchards .
the trademark double ikat designs of the cotton sarees of sambalpur can be bought in any state emporium , but for the largest and most unique collection , visit the souce itself .
chakem has both vegetarian and non vegetarian avatars .
the ambience in astoria a hotel cum restaurant is reason enough to visit , although the pork vindaloo with poe will have you clamouring for a second , and then third , helping .
it is sacred to lord shiva and every summer there throng thousands of hindu devotees to take a holy dip into the waters of the holy lake .
you can get here on state transport buses from mumbai , pune and belgaum taxis and rickshaws are available , or you can hire cycles and move around on horseback .
in the confusion rinchin , the ladhaki prince , whom the hindu religious leaders of the time refused to admit into their fold , organized an internal rising and seized the throne .
some regard this gradual focus on tourism as disconcerting many wish to preserve antarctica in its elemental state and want to avoid any potential environmental damage .
try to avoid peak lunch hours ( between 1 pm and 2 pm ) , when the clattering of stainless steel becomes deafening .
pangong lake in kashmir , which is the world 's highest brackish lake , is perched at a height of 14 , 256 feet above seal level .
the north-east monsoon brings light rainfall during the months of september , october , november and december .
the grassy area is known variously as college green , abingdon green and st stephens green .
located in a wooded area , bhakti kutir comprises is a tiny village of 22 charming thatched cabanas , all built with palm leaves , bamboo and clay .
lake resort , enchanting location-right at the edge of a placid lake naukuchiatal , surrounding by the soothing green of oak forests .
such is the setting of karakoram range , this remnant of a primeval ice age , `` the third pole , `` with extensive glacier systems and the greatest concentration of lofty mountains in the world .
the hill station is very charming in winter when the rains have stopped and there are a thousand waterfalls gushing down the hills .
detailed information on bus routes , mrt stations and fares can be found in the transitlink guide , a copy of which can be purchased at bus interchanges , mrt stations and major bookstores .
the satya health farms is also home to a healthy restaurant that serves pure vegetarian cuisine made from fresh farm-produced vegetables and grains .
this pilgrimage is located at a distance of 14 miles from srinagar in the tula mula village in kashmir , india .
nepal , a sovereign independent kingdom , is bounded , on the north by the tibetan autonomous region of the people 's republic of china , the east-south and west by india .
you will find great scrolls of the old testament and the copper plates in which the grants of privilege made by the cochin rulers were recorded .
the rare and graceful guara , resembling a flamingo with a long , curved beak , is found only on caju island .
aalankrita spread out over 10 acres of landscape gardens ; anlankrita is a popular weekend gateway .
she died in 1003 a. d. and left the throne of kashmir to her family in undisputed succession .
explorers like dr. thomas walker and john finley in the 1750s and frontiersmen like daniel boone and simon kenton in the 1760s gave glowing accounts of the rich land beyond the mountains .
from siddharth to sakyamuni and finally to the buddha bodhgaya or the enlightened one , an incredible transformation of a prince to an enlightened teacher , who walked the earth more than 2500 years ago .
other islands one can visit from port blair itself would be wandour beach , corbyn s cove , jolly buoy , and ross island .
today , the old sangkhalok potteries are eagerly sought by collectors .
the features of the construction of taj mahal demonstrate the ability of the indian architects to reconcile the illusionary effects created by distance and light .
steeped in spiritualism and regal splendour , madhya pradesh s historic places and forts figure in every traveller s itinerary .
the paragliding ashram , popularly known as melissa s place , is owned by , well , melissa , who runs this beautiful house amid lush forests facing the vadiavali lake .
these are state government run enterprises that stock the best of the crafts and textiles of gujarat with an assurance of quality and accurate price .
horse safaris are organized in the marwar region of rajasthan .
the provincial capital of ubon ratchathani is approximately 630 kilometers northeast of bangkok .
every thing moves at a leisurely place in taragarh palace but alas , the food may not be much to write home about .
hyderabad is extremely well connected by air with major cities in india and is served by indian airlines , jet airways and sahara airlines with frequent flights .
minbus safaris in the enclosure offer the excitement of spotting lions in their natural habitat , and you can imagine a few moments that you re in the gir forests .
the tempo of the dance increases with the time , until it is blur of whirling people and clashing of dandiyas , hypnotic for those to watch .
by 1998 , the country was in the grip of the struggle between the government , traffickers , right-wing paramilitaries and left-wing guerrillas .
skiing is yet another offering of adventure tourism in india which is tourism with a difference .
karnataka also has some of the most interesting historic architecture in india .
jag mandir is also known for its beautiful gardens , courtyard and carved `` chhatri `` presented in grey and blue stone .
early hispanic settlers were granted lands first by spain and later mexico .
highlights of the 40 minute circular cruise include st paul 's cathedral , the houses of parliament , tower of london , and hms belfast , shakespeare 's globe , tate modern and the millennium bridge .
kalimpong offers a wide range of traditional handicrafts to the traveler .
today , tennessee is a leading tobacco-producing state .
lewis and clark passed through the region during their 1803-1806 expedition to the pacific ocean .
the name was retained after indonesia achieved national independence after the war 's end .
chiang mai was then governed by a succession of princes who ruled the north as a siamese protectorate under the chakri dynasty .
also worth seeing are the ethnological displays in the on hgb road , agartala .
the caves of ajanta are further away ( 3hrs ) ; four buses leave each morning for the caves .
you can enjoy traditional meals in a charming thatched pavilion , surrounded by the music of chirruping crickets .
such can be the charm of motorcycle safari in india and for that matter in any other part of the world which enjoys a pride of place in the pantheon of adventure tourism in india .
the old bailey was built in the early 1900 's on the site of the old newgate prison .
the shuttle service stops at concorde hotel singapore , crown prince hotel singapore , excelsior peninsula hotel , and marina mandarin singapore .
suya 's memory is still preserved to this day , by the town sayapur ( sopore ) founded by him at the point where river vitasta , since his regulation leaves the basin of mahapadomsar ( wouler lake .
by road silchar to aizawl ( 180 km ) is a 68 hr journey on the national highway 54 . reasonably good roads link guwahati ( 506 km ) , imphal ( 374 km ) , kohima ( 497 km ) , shillong ( 430 km ) and agartala ( 443km ) to aizawl .
the quaint decor , along with the slow waiters and the eternally old menu , make koshy s the place to be on most evenings .
the plinth of the main tomb of taj mahal is 2'10'' high on an average .
the gateway to the temple of buniar is a double-chambered structure with two arches that face each other .
climate almora is renowned for its salubrious atmosphere that helped revive ailing visitors .
as a popular hill station in india , lakkidi also boasts of the second highest degree of rainfall in the whole wide world .
the friendly and hospitable thai nature boosts its promotion , frequently bringing back the repeat visitors and constantly increasing the number of newcomers .
123 km from jhansi , deogarh is situated on the right bank of the betwa river , at the western end of the lalitpur range of hills .
in front of the main entrance is a platform , which is popular for use as a spot for taking photographs .
anyone who has lived here can never be happy anywhere else in the world .
near srirangapatna is the ranganathittu bird sanctuary .
the population boomed during the 1820s as miners flocked to lead mines in southwest wisconsin .
take your pick from the mind boggling range ( some shops boasts of more than 70 varieties ) - chameli , motia , gulab , ( the ones derived from flowers can be strong ) , musk , amber oud ( derived from a tree bark ) and even matti ( derived from damp earth soon after the first summer rain .
the rig veda mentions about dasyus and nishads living in this region and their powerful king shambra who had 99 forts .
rajasthan has mount abu and sariska , which have gentler rocks .
new interpretations of fluidity and movement in the classical and the contemporary are created , resolving themselves in the realm of the timeless .
sit at the rooftop restaurant on a lazy evening with live music and playing , sample the delicious food allow yourself to be lulled into a sense of being transported to the orient .
all the 10 rooms are colour themed according to feng shui principle , and afford panoramic view of the himalayas .
butterfly park & insect kingdom open : 9am 6.30pm daily ( last entry 6pm .
the founding of present day bangalore is attributed to the magadi chieftain , kempe gowda , who laid its foundations in 1537 .
manufactured by schneider creusot loire and using the best engineering and electrical machineries available , it was upgraded in 1995 with new cabins and computer controls .
the martand temple has been universally admired by the archeologists and the artists .
national parks & monuments include carlsbad caverns , aztec ruins , bandelier , capulin volcano , el malpais , el morro , gila cliff dwellings , petroglyph , salinas , white sands .
the ajmer city was founded by raja ajay pal chauhan in the 7th century a . d . and continued to be a major centre of the chauhan power till 1193 a . d . when prithviraj chauhan lost it to mohammed ghauri .
there are also other great dhabas , selling a variety of food , on the kohima-dimapur highway .
there was no precursor of genius in brazilian painting : in the 1920 's painting simply emerged out of the shadows of the academy and joined the wave of innovation then sweeping europe .
onam harvest festival commemorates a mythical time of social harmony , peace , and equilibrium .
this ancient temple is located at a distance of 4 kilometers from godaulia in varanasi , india .
one of the best ways to appreciate the grandeur and significance of thailand s history is to absorb the atmosphere of the ruins and monuments of past thai civilisations .
the fortress is built on a granite hill 120 meters high and its gates are studded with menacing iron spikes , intended to discourage elephants from battering them down .
eco-tourism also endeavors to encourage and support the diversity of local economies for which the tourism-related income is important .
for those with romantic tendencies , the house where poet john keats lived is open to the public and includes many of his personal effects .
the hot springs and cool streams converge on a slope to form lovely cascades of warm water with a temperature of 40-50 degrees celsius .
anglo-saxon settlers from the older seaboard states flocked to mississippi 's virgin lands , bringing black slaves to work their fields , and until 1940 blacks outnumbered whites .
the average gaujarati is enthusiastic participant on over 2 , 000 festivals every year , but nothing brings out the best in him as do two specially cherished celebrations the kite festival in uttarayan and the delirious elation of navaratri .
the walls within are decorated with carved wooden panels and elaborate inlay work in silver and gold .
fort st. angelo was made by the first portuguese victors of the area in 1505 and has some cashew trees , initially said to be planted by the portugues .
eventually it was bought by an entrepreneur who planned to gut the inside of the building and turn it into a giant theme park type amusement complex .
subject to above a party visiting the zone ( i.e. 10 mile belt and 30 mile belt of pakistan border with foreign countries ) may take photographs / make films under the direct supervision of a l. o. / m . g .
the very first moslem kingdom on the island was founded in 1511 at demak , about 40 km from semarang .
khuda baksh library known as the world of manuscripts in india , this is a treasure house of medieval manuscripts and is famous for its rare arabic and persian manuscripts , rich paintings and numerous volumes of rare books .
namdapha wildlife sanctuary is situated in the changlang district and is home to the rare hoolock gibbon .
european control was ended by the u .s . militia of george rogers clark in 1778 , whereupon virginia claimed illinois as within its territory .
the sheerchai , made of green tea leaves boiled for half an hour with bicarbonate of soda , salt , milk , and cream ; it is pink and salty , even though it s contrarily called sheer ( sweet ) .
ubon ratchathani has been a well established community for hundreds of years .
there is a wide variety of hotel accommodation for travelers to ajmer to choose from deluxe , standard , budget and economy , depending on the budget and choice of hotel .
modern luxury hotels today cater to the discriminating visitors. transport within the city is plentiful .
in 1839 , largely through the efforts of a young legislator named abraham lincoln , the capitol was again moved , this time to springfield , where it is now open to the public as an historic site .
the island of phuket does not have any major rivers except for a total of 9 brooks and creeks .
tribal organization was weakened by the dawes act of 1887 , and native americans have increasingly moved to the cities despite the indian reorganization act of 1934 .
jodhpur , called the land of the dead , was founded by rao jodha , the chief of a clan known as the rathores in 1459 .
bas-reliefs by rudyard kipling 's father , lockwood kipling , adorn the norman-gothic exterior .
most of the buildings within the agra fort are a mixture of different architectural styles .
flanked by two large lakes and a garden where a thousand flowers bloom every winter , part of the ujjaynta now houses the state assembly .
how much you can expect to spend on a holiday in uttaranchal will depend on when and where you go and what you do .
the santa cruz church was declared a basilica by pope john paul ii in 1984 .
the entrance to the temple is through an ornate archway with intricate inlay work .
subject , rhythm , costume , and choreography reveal the three principal components of the nation 's culture in a complex interaction .
