Modern markets :  confident consumers
a summary of the government's consumer white paper
A fair deal and prosperity go hand in hand . 
Confident consumers ,  making informed decisions in modern and competitive markets ,  promote the development of innovative and good value products . 
And better performance in business in turn benefits consumers . 
The opening up of global markets and the spread of electronic commerce bring opportunities and challenges for consumers and for business . 
In its White Paper ,  modern markets :  confident consumers ,  the Government has set a new agenda . 
to promote open and competitive markets
to avoid burdening those businesses with unnecessary regulation
to protect the public from serious trading malpractice and unsafe products . 
The White Paper will benefit all consumers but the Government will focus in particular on the needs of those with less developed consumer skills ,  those who are socially excluded and those on low incomes who can least afford to make a bad purchase . 
Open and competitive markets
Open and competitive markets are the best guarantee of a good deal for consumers . 
They encourage innovation and ensure competitive prices . 
The Government is putting in place a framework that fosters free and fair competition ,  but is tough on those who seek to damage the competitive process . 
The Government is also encouraging the competition authorities to be more proactive . 
To this end ,  the Government is launching an annual study to investigate whether prices are higher in the UK than in the US ,  France and Germany . 
The competition authorities will then look at whether any discrepancies are caused by anti - competitive behaviour . 
Knowledgeable and demanding consumers
To make informed choices ,  consumers need reliable information on price ,  quality and the safety of products . 
The Government will take steps to ensure that consumers have access to accurate ,  comprehensive and comprehensible information . 
better information on prices
Goods on sale in shops will be clearly priced . 
And it will be easier to compare the price of goods in different quantities . 
truthful advertising and claims
The Government proposes to change the law to introduce tougher controls on misdescriptions of services . 
providing timely information
Consumers will be better informed about their rights when buying by mail order ,  telephone or the Internet ,  and given a guaranteed level of prior information about the contract . 
building knowledge and skills
Consumer education is a top priority . 
The Government is working with a wide range of groups to develop training packages for adults and schoolchildren . 
Promoting customer service
Good customer service is an integral part of any successful business strategy . 
The Government wants to encourage good customer service in a number of ways . 
developing effective codes of practice
Working with business ,  consumer groups and local authorities ,  the Government has drawn up core principles for effective codes of practice . 
The Government also proposes to give the Office of Fair Trading  ( OFT )  powers to approve and publicise codes which meet these principles . 
promoting good practice
The Government will help develop customer satisfaction indices ,  and encourage their inclusion in existing and future benchmarking schemes . 
more help for business
The Government wants to know whether small businesses should be protected by current consumer law . 
e - commerce
The Government is working with the Alliance of Electronic Business ,  the Consumers' Association and the OFT to set up a new body to accredit e - commerce codes ,  which will be identified by a digital  " hallmark "  . 
Helping consumers to get redress
When a purchase goes wrong ,  consumers are entitled to quick and effective redress . 
signposting sources of advice
The Government will help consumers get quick ,  accurate answers to their questions by promoting the development of a new consumer advice network and launching a pilot telephone helpline . 
enforcing rights
The Government is taking steps to ensure that consumers and businesses going through the courts or other redress mechanisms get a simple ,  quick decision . 
Neither party should incur heavy costs . 
Modernising regulation
Consumer legislation is already well developed and needs little extension . 
Risk ,  cost and alternative ways of achieving the desired result will always be considered before regulation . 
However ,  the Government will legislate when new circumstances emerge for consumers that cannot be dealt with in other ways . 
In financial services and food safety ,  new frameworks for regulation are being built in the form of the Financial Services Authority and the Food Standards Agency . 
reducing burdens
The Government believes there is scope for removing a number of burdensome regulations without jeopardising consumer interests . 
Among other things ,  the Government is looking at : 
updating and simplifying the law on weights and measures
the current system of consumer credit licensing . 
Securing compliance
The Government is determined that the public should be properly protected by the law and that the law should be effectively enforced . 
dealing with the rogues
Existing law fails to deter the small number of  " rogue "  traders who continually disregard legislation aimed at protecting consumers . 
The Government wants a much clearer targeting of the dishonest . 
It plans : 
a power for the courts to ban from trading for a period of time those traders with a history of disregarding their legal obligations
a power for the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry to make orders by secondary legislation specifying that certain practices which have been shown to be harmful should be made illegal . 
The power to seek injunctions and banning orders will be made available to local authorities as well as the OFT . 
a modern trading standards service
The Government wants to see the trading standards service in local government strengthened to meet the expectations of consumers and business . 
The Government will : 
develop clear performance measures which encourage local accountability
foster better training to provide more officers to enforce consumer protection law and ensure a high quality service across the country
encourage closer co - operation between local authorities . 
widening the enforcement base
The Government will give more bodies the right to take action against unfair contract terms and to seek injunctions against traders who breach the law in nine key areas . 
Consumers at the heart of Government
The Government wants consumers to have a powerful voice . 
It also wants to see effective consumer representation . 
The Government will ensure that : 
consumers' views are sought before decisions are taken on relevant industrial ,  trade and social policy issues . 
A consumer advisory group will report directly to Ministers
the development of consumer policies is based on sound evidence by putting additional resources into research and polling consumers directly . 
a stronger voice for consumers
The Government is giving the OFT new opportunities to develop its role as a consumer watchdog . 
The Director General of Fair Trading will undertake a fundamental review of his consumer affairs functions in order to build a stronger OFT . 
The National Consumer Council  ( NCC )  is well placed to speak for consumers on major issues . 
The Government will help relaunch the NCC as a dynamic and even more effective force in UK consumer affairs . 
Joining it all up
The Government has set out a clear vision and principles guiding the development of consumer policy ,  to which all Departments have signed up . 
This will ensure : 
an emphasis on the issues which really matter to consumers
a forward - looking approach ,  identifying problems at an early stage
greater consistency in analysis and the development of solutions
more cohesion between policy - making and enforcement organisations . 
Next steps
The White Paper is the start of the process ,  not the end . 
It will provide a solid basis for the development of consumer policy in the future . 
It establishes a framework ,  based on in - depth research into consumers' needs ,  which will ensure that new issues are properly identified ,  researched and acted upon . 
The Government will promote a joined - up approach both within and outside government . 
If you would like to comment on this White Paper ,  please write to : 
Stephen Haddrill
Director of Consumer Affairs 
Department of Trade and Industry
1 Victoria Street
London
SW1H 0ET
or e - mail :  white . paper @ cacp . dti . gov . uk
Your comments should arrive by 29 October 1999
School Attendance :  Information for Parents
Introduction
If you are a parent of  ( or are responsible for )  a child aged between 5 and 16 who is registered at school ,  this information explains your responsibilities for making sure he or she attends school regularly . 
The Law
By law ,  all children of compulsory school age  ( between 5 and 16 )  must get a proper full - time education . 
You are responsible for making sure this happens ,  either by registering the child at a school or by making other arrangements which provide an effective education . 
If your child is registered as a pupil at a particular school ,  that school must give permission for your child to be absent . 
If your child does not go to the school at which he or she is registered ,  the relevant education authority can take legal action against you . 
Why must my child go to school regularly ? 
Having a good education will help to give your child the best possible start in life . 
If your child does not attend school regularly ,  he or she will not be able to keep up with the work . 
Employers will want to be sure that the people they are thinking of taking on are reliable . 
So children who have not attended their school regularly have less chance of getting a good job . 
Young people who are off school for no good reason are at risk of becoming victims of crime or abuse . 
They may also be drawn into anti - social or criminal behaviour . 
What can I do to help ? 
Make sure that your child goes to school regularly ,  arrives on time and keeps to the school's rules on going to all lessons . 
Start these good habits at an early age ,  while your child is in primary school . 
If your child starts missing school ,  help the school to put things right . 
Make sure your child understands that you do not approve of him or her missing school . 
If your child is ill ,  contact the school on the first day of your child's illness . 
Staff will be concerned if they do not hear anything . 
If your child is ever off school ,  you must tell the school why . 
Do this by following the arrangements made by the school . 
 If you want permission for your child to miss school for example because of a special occasion such as a wedding ,  you should ask for permission well in advance and give full details . 
Do not expect the school to agree to shopping trips during school hours . 
Take an interest in your child's school work . 
Support the school in its efforts to control bad behaviour . 
Family holidays during term time
Wherever possible ,  you should take your holidays during school holidays . 
Avoid taking your child on holiday at times when he or she should be taking exams or tests . 
You should not expect your child's school to agree to a family holiday during term time . 
The school will carefully consider your request and they may take your child's attendance record into account . 
Schools will not agree to your child missing more than a total of ten school days for family holidays in any one school year ,  unless there is a very good reason . 
If your child is off school for more than ten days ,  the school may set work for him or her to do while you are away . 
The role of the Local Education Authority
Local education authorities  ( LEAs )  are responsible ,  by law ,  for making sure that registered pupils of compulsory school age attend their school regularly . 
 Most LEAs employ education welfare officers  ( also called education social workers )  to monitor school attendance and to help parents meet their responsibilities . 
 Education welfare officers work closely with schools . 
If your child is not attending school regularly ,  an education welfare officer may visit you . 
For your child's sake you should co - operate with the education welfare officer to make sure your child overcomes his or her attendance problems and gets a proper education . 
If you do not do everything you can to co - operate with the education welfare officer and school ,  the LEA may have no choice but to get an education supervision order . 
This means that the court appoints a supervisor to help and give advice to you and your child . 
 The LEA can also prosecute you in a magistrates court . 
This could result in you and your partner being fined up to  £1000 for each child who is not going to school . 
If you need more information or help ,  please contact your local school or your Local Education Authority
ISBN 0855229098
Home - School Agreements
What every parent should know
In this document ,  we refer to 'your child' . 
In fact ,  it's aimed at anyone who is the carer of a child aged 5 to 16 and whose name appears on the admission register as a 'parent' at his or her school . 
From September 1999 ,  all schools will have to have a written 'home - school agreement' ,  drawn up in consultation with you . 
This will be for all pupils and parents ,  not just new pupils . 
This document explains the purpose of these agreements ,  what they will cover and how you can get involved in decisions about the agreement introduced by your child's school . 
There are many ways you can help your child in school . 
By law you are responsible for making sure he or she goes to school regularly ,  and on time . 
But you can also help by supporting the school's rules ,  and its arrangements for homework . 
Make sure your child knows that you support the school's policies . 
Ask your child's teachers how you can help your child at school . 
Tell them about anything which might affect your child's work at school and talk to them if you are worried about your child's progress . 
Make sure the school knows that you want to be told as soon as any problems arise which involve your child . 
Let them know about anything else you would like them to tell you . 
What is a home - school agreement ?  
A home - school agreement will explain the aims and values of your child's school . 
It will spell out the responsibilities of the school and your responsibilities ,  and what the school expects of their pupils . 
Why are home - school agreements important ? 
Children achieve more when schools and parents work together . 
Home - school agreements will help you to work with your child's school . 
Your support and encouragement are very important if your child is to make the most of school . 
Will all schools have these agreements ? 
All state schools will have a written home - school agreement . 
When will they be introduced ? 
Schools will introduce these agreements from September 1999 . 
But ,  before then ,  your child's school will ask for your views on what their home - school agreement should say . 
What areas should the agreement include in ? 
Each school will have its own home - school agreement . 
You and your child's school should decide together what your agreement should say . 
The standard of education the school will provide
This might say something about the standard of attainment the school is aiming for . 
For example ,  that children have the right to a broad and balanced curriculum . 
And how they must meet the needs of all children . 
Schools must draw up targets for National Curriculum assessments ,  GCSEs and vocational qualifications . 
Schools have to identify and support children with special educational needs . 
They can set extra targets to measure the progress of these children . 
The agreement might draw attention to these . 
The 'ethos' of the school
The agreement might refer to the school's particular character and spirit  . 
For example ,  it might say how this is put across through the attitude of pupils and staff . 
It might also say how the school ethos is reflected in the way pupils relate to each other ,  how pupils relate to staff ,  and how the school relates to the community it serves . 
As part of this section ,  the agreement could refer to the school's aims for pupils' spiritual ,  moral ,  cultural and social development . 
Regular attendance on time
It is important for your child's future that he makes the most of his time at school . 
This means going regularly and turning up on time ,  qualities valued by employers . 
Home - school agreements should remind you of this . 
If you are a parent or carer ,  did you know the following ? 
By law you are responsible for making sure that your children are educated between the ages of 5 and 16 . 
If your child is registered at a school ,  he or she must go to school on time every day during term - time ,  unless there is a good reason  ( such as illness )  . 
If they do not go to school regularly ,  you may be fined . 
It is your responsibility to tell the school if your child cannot go . 
If attendance problems do develop ,  the school will expect you to help their staff and the education welfare service to solve the problems . 
You do not have a right to take children on holiday in term - time . 
The school must agree this beforehand . 
Discipline and behaviour
You have a very important role in encouraging your child to behave well ,  and your influence is critical in shaping your child's attitude and behaviour . 
Good behaviour and discipline in school pupils should come from a partnership between home and school . 
The home - school agreement should say that the pupil will be expected to keep to the school's rules ,  and that you will support the school in maintaining good behaviour and discipline . 
Homework
Doing homework helps children to develop important skills ,  in particular those of independent learning . 
The Government recommends regular homework for all children from year 1 upwards . 
Young children should start by reading or sharing a book with you for short periods of time . 
We have asked all schools to draw up a written statement of their policy on homework ,  consulting parents . 
To help them do this we have given them guidelines on how much homework children of different ages should do . 
The amount of homework recommended in the guidelines ,  in broad terms ,  is shown below . 
Primary
Years 1 and 2
1 hour a week
 ( reading ,  spelling ,  other literacy work and number work ) 
Years 3 and 4
1 1 / 2 hours a week 
 ( literacy and numeracy as for Years 1 and 2 and with occasional assignments in other subjects ) 
Years 5 and 6
30 minutes a day
 ( regular weekly schedule with continued emphasis on literacy and numeracy but also ranging widely over the curriculum ) 
Secondary
Years 7 and 8
45 to 90 minutes a day
Year 9
1 to 2 hours a day
Years 10 and 11
1 1 / 2 to 2 1 / 2 hours a day
The guidelines say that homework should be properly planned and organised so that : 
children are not expected to do too much on one day and not enough on another ; 
the tasks they are set are realistic within the time available ; 
tasks are clearly related to the work children are doing in school and are not too difficult or too easy ; 
children are given feedback on their homework ;  and
where possible older children can ,  if they want to ,  do their homework at places other than home ,  for example after school at a homework club ,  or at a local study support centre . 
We have asked schools to consult you about homework and to explain what is expected of pupils ,  you and the school in homework statements . 
The home - school agreement may just say that you are expected to support the school's homework policy without repeating what it says . 
If you have not seen the school's policy ,  ask for a copy . 
The agreement may also tell you the school will consult you about any changes to homework arrangements . 
The information schools and parents will give to one another
Good communication between the school and the home is essential . 
For example ,  you should know when to expect a written report on your child's progress . 
It is also important to make sure you tell the school about any issues that might affect your child's work or behaviour . 
How will I be involved ? 
By law ,  the school's governors must consult all registered parents of pupils aged 5 to 16 years before introducing a home - school agreement or changing an existing one . 
Schools will have different ways of consulting you . 
Ask your child's school how they will consult you . 
What do I need to think about when giving the school my views ? 
You might want to think about : 
what you expect from the school ; 
what should the school expect from you ,  and from your child ; 
what the school tells you and what you need to know ; 
what can the school do to help you help your child ;  and
whether you would like to be more involved in what happens at the school . 
Will I have to sign the agreement ? 
The school will ask you to sign the agreement to show that you understand and accept it . 
They might also ask your child to sign if he or she is old enough to understand it . 
What happens if I ,  or my child ,  break the agreement ? 
If you ,  or your child ,  break the agreement ,  the headteacher may want to discuss the matter with you . 
The school should not discipline or exclude your child simply because you ,  or your child ,  have broken the agreement . 
However ,  if your child breaks the agreement by seriously breaking school discipline ,  he or she may be disciplined or excluded . 
If you feel the school is not keeping to their side of the agreement ,  you should speak to the headteacher or the governing body . 
National Year of Reading  -  A little reading goes a long way
As part of the National Year of Reading which started on 16 September 1998 ,  parents are being encouraged to help their children enjoy reading and writing and to support the literacy work of schools and teachers . 
You may have seen the TV advertisements featuring children reading a wide range of material in different places ,  from shopping lists in supermarkets to books on buses or trains . 
We have produced a leaflet 'A little reading goes a long way' to go with the advertisements . 
It gives simple step - by - step advice to help parents and carers discover the joys of reading and writing with their children . 
And finally .  .  . 
It is important that you have your say . 
Make sure that the agreement sets out clearly what the school will do for your child and how you can help . 
 If A Blood Sample Is Being Taken
We are measuring the spread of HIV infection  ( the virus which causes AIDs )  and some other infectious diseases . 
 We are doing this by testing the blood from some patients ,  including babies . 
If a blood sample is being taken ,  unless you object ,  a small leftover portion may be tested separately to provide information about infectious diseases including HIV . 
 No extra blood will be taken . 
 This sample will not have a name on it and if it is tested ,  it will be impossible to trace back to you or to let you know the result . 
 Testing leftover blood will not affect the care or treatment given nor will it have any effect on your job or insurance . 
 We hope you will help . 
 If you have any questions ,  or object to leftover blood being used for this purpose the doctor ,  nurse ,  midwife or health advisor will be happy to speak to you in confidence . 
 Your wishes will be respected . 
 If you are worried about HIV or any other infectious disease and want to have a personal test so that you can know the result ,  please ask your clinic doctor or nurse ,  or your GP ,  or go to your local genito - urinary medicine  (  GUM  )  clinic .  
 Clinics are listed in telephone directories . 
 If you have any questions about HIV and AIDS or would like to talk to a trained advisor you can call the National AIDS Helpline on 0800 - 567 - 123 . 
 The helpline operates 24 hours a day . 
 All calls are free of charge from anywhere in the UK . 
 The leaflet is available in English ,  Welsh ,  Arabic ,  Cantonese ,  Greek ,  Turkish ,  Bengali ,  Gujarati ,  Hindi ,  Punjabi and Urdu . 
BE BREAST AWARE
What is Breast Awareness ? 
Breast awareness is a part of general body awareness . 
It is a process of getting to know your own breasts and becoming familiar with their appearance . 
Learning how your breasts feel at different times will help you to know what is normal for you . 
You can become familiar with your breast tissue by looking and feeling  -  in any way that is best for you  ( eg in the bath ,  shower ,  when dressing )  . 
Take care of your own well - being
The Normal Breast
Before the menopause normal breasts feel different at different times of the month . 
The milk - producing tissue in the breasts becomes active in the days before a period starts . 
In some women ,  the breasts at this time feel tender and lumpy ,  especially near the armpits . 
After a hysterectomy the breasts usually show the same monthly differences until the time when your periods would have stopped . 
After the menopause activity in the milk - producing tissue stops . 
Normal breasts feel soft ,  less firm and not lumpy . 
Know what is normal for you
Changes to Look out for
Appearance . 
 Any change in the outline or shape of the breast ,  especially those caused by arm movements ,  or by lifting the breasts . 
Any puckering or dimpling of the skin . 
Feelings . 
 Discomfort or pain in one breast that is different from normal ,  particularly if new and persistent . 
Lumps . 
Any lumps ,  thickening or bumpy areas in one breast or armpit which seem to be different from the same part of the other breast and armpit . 
This is very important if new . 
Nipple change . 
Nipple discharge ,  new for you and not milky . 
Bleeding or moist reddish areas which don't heal easily . 
Any change in nipple position  -  pulled in or pointing differently . 
A nipple rash on or around the nipple . 
Know what to look and feel for
What to Do if You Find a Change 
There can be many reasons for changes in the breast . 
Most of them are harmless but all of them need to be checked as there is a small chance they could be the first sign of cancer . 
If you are aware of any change in your breast from what is normal for you ,  tell your doctor without delay . 
Remember ,  you are not wasting anyone’s time . 
If there is a cancer present ,  the sooner it is reported ,  the more simple treatment is likely to be . 
This offers greater prospects of benefit in terms of quality of life . 
Breast cancer is very rare in women under the age of 40 . 
The likelihood of developing breast cancer increases with age . 
Report any changes without delay
Breast Screening
If you are aged 50 and over it is strongly recommended that you take advantage of the National Health Service Breast Screening Programme which offers three - yearly mammography . 
This is an X - ray procedure which can detect breast changes at a very early stage . 
For more information about the Breast Screening Programme ask your doctor . 
Routine X - ray breast screening is not available for women under 50 as it has not been shown to be of benefit . 
If you have any cause for concern about your breasts tell your doctor . 
Breast Awareness Five - point Code
Know what is normal for you . 
Look and feel . 
Know what changes to look for . 
Report any changes without delay . 
Attend for breast screening if aged 50 or over . 
Reducing the Risk of Cot Death
The Department of Health
Cot death ,  also known as Sudden Infant Death Syndrome ,  usually affects babies between one and five months . 
It happens while they're asleep and is always sudden and unexpected . 
Thankfully ,  it is comparatively rare . 
Because no one yet knows why Cot Death happens ,  there's no sure way to prevent it . 
Studies have shown that by taking a few simple precautions ,  you can reduce the risk . 
The information in this leaflet is for everyone who looks after a baby  -  -  -  not just parents but other members of the family and other carers such as childminders and baby - sitters . 
Why not keep this leaflet next to where your baby sleeps so everyone knows what to do . 
Sleeping Position
Recent research shows that Cot Death is more common in babies who go to sleep on their tummies . 
By making sure your baby goes to sleep in the right position you can reduce the risk of Cot Death . 
Babies should be laid down to sleep :   
 on their backs or ;  
 on their sides ,  with the lower arm forward to stop them rolling over . 
Don't be worried that babies might be sick and choke if laid on their backs . 
There is no evidence that this happens . 
Some babies who require special care or who have particular medical problems need to be nursed on their tummies . 
Your doctor ,  nurse or midwife will explain why . 
If in doubt talk it over with them . 
For babies who have been sleeping on their tummies ,  try them on their backs or sides . 
But they may not like the change and find it difficult to settle . 
If this happens then it is probably wise not to upset them by insisting on the new position . 
If you are at all worried then speak to your health visitor or doctor . 
The right sleeping position is only important until babies are able to roll themselves over in their sleep . 
Once they can do this it is safe to let them take whichever position they prefer . 
Temperature
Babies should be kept warm ,  but they must not be allowed to get too warm . 
Keep the temperature in your baby's room so that you feel comfortable in it . 
Use lightweight blankets which you can add to or take way according to the room temperature . 
Do not use a duvet or baby nest which can be too warm and can easily cover a baby's head . 
Smoke - Free
Create a smoke - free zone for your baby . 
Do not smoke anywhere near the baby . 
Better still do not smoke at all . 
If your baby seems unwell seek medical advice early and quickly . 
Research continues into the causes of Cot Dearth . 
Remember it is comparatively rare ,  so do not let the fear of Cot Death spoil the first months with your baby . 
Discharge From Hospital
Since April 1993 there have been changes in the way social care is financed and provided . 
Money has been previously been given by the Department of Social Security to pay for care in residential homes . 
It has been transferred to the City Council's Social Services Department who are now responsible for organising all care . 
They will do this both by providing some services themselves and by buying in care from a variety of private ad voluntary providers . 
This will give more choice and flexibility to users and the people who care for them . 
One of the Major aims of the changes is to make sure that help goes to those people who need it most ,  and that people get the services they want . 
Who Will Get the Help
People who are due to be discharged from hospital but who still require intensive support either on a long - term basis or while they recover from a serious illness for example ,  a stroke or a major operation . 
How to Get Help
Your nurse or hospital doctor will contact the Social Services Department to arrange for your needs to be assessed . 
Someone will come to see you in hospital to find out more about you and what you would like to see happen . 
They will also talk to people who provide care for you :   hospital staff ,  your family and your friends ,  and your GP . 
If you are not a Manchester resident but are in hospital in the city ,  Manchester Social Services Department will make arrangements for you to be assessed . 
 ( More details about the Assessment Process are in the leaflet How To Get Help From Social Services ) 
Planning Your Care
Wherever possible your need should be met by providing a package of care in your own home or community . 
This could include help from the health and social services ,  but also from family and friends and voluntary groups . 
Sometimes however it may be best to provide care in a residential or nursing home . 
Whatever is decided the  " care plan "  that is arranged for you will only be with your full agreement . 
The Social Services Department and the Manchester Health Authorities have made an agreement ensuring that ,  as far as possible ,  discharge from hospital should be planned effectively . 
You should not be in hospital any longer than is medically necessary nor be sent home without proper arrangements being made . 
Your GP will be contacted on the day of your discharge or before . 
What It Will Cost
If you want and need to go into a residential home you will be asked details of your income ,  savings and property as part of your assessment . 
If you have less than 3 , 000 pound you will not have to pay anything except any income support or attendance allowance you can claim which will go towards the costs . 
You will be able to keep a sum for your personal expenses . 
If you have between 3 , 000 pound and 8 , 000 pound there is a sliding scale of charges . 
More information
If you require more information contact your Ward Nurse who will be able to help . 
Food Law Inspections and your business
Who will inspect your business ? 
Environmental health officers and trading standards officers have the right to enter and inspect food premises at all reasonable hours . 
They do not have to make an appointment and they will usually come without notice . 
They carry out routine inspections and may also visit as a result of a complaint . 
How often routine inspections happen depends on the potential risk posed by the type of business and its previous record . 
Some premises may be inspected at least every six months ,  others much less often . 
Inspectors will look at the way you operate your business to identify potential hazards and to make sure it complies with the law . 
They will discuss any problems with you and advise on possible solutions . 
They also have powers which they can use when they think it is necessary to protect the public . 
What are you entitled to expect from the inspectors ? 
A courteous manner ;  
To be shown identification ;  
Feedback from any inspection ,  such as information about hazards which have been identified and Guidance on how they could be avoided ;  
A clear distinction between what the inspector is recommending you do because it is good practice and what you must do to comply with the law ;  
To be given the reasons in writing for any action you are asked to take ;  
Where there is an apparent breach of law ,  a statement of what that law is ;  
Reasonable time to meet statutory requirements ,  except where there is an immediate risk to public health ;  
to be told the procedures for appealing against local authority action . 
What powers do inspectors have ? 
They can take samples and photographs ,  and inspect records . 
You must not obstruct inspectors . 
They may write to you informally asking you to put right any problems they find . 
Where breaches of the law are identified which must be put right they may serve you with an improvement notice . 
They can detain or seize suspect foods . 
In serious cases they may decide to recommend a prosecution :   if the prosecution is successful ,  the Court may impose prohibitions on processes and the use of premises or equipment ,  fines and possibly imprisonment . 
If there is an imminent health risk to consumers ,  inspectors can serve on emergency prohibition notice which forbids the use of the premises or equipment . 
Such a notice must be conformed by the Court . 
What you can do if you think the outcome is not fair ? 
If you don't agree with the action taken by the inspector ,  you should first contact your local authority's head of environmental health or trading standards services ,  to see if the problem can be resolved informally . 
If disagreement remains after that you could approach your local councillor . 
If you think your local authority is applying the law in a different way from other authorities you can seek advice from the Local Authorities Co - ordinating Body on Food and Trading Standards  ( LACOTS )  either through your trade association or your local authority . 
You have a right of appeal to a Magistrates' Court against an improvement notice or a refusal by a local authority to list an emergency prohibition order made earlier by the Court . 
A Magistrates' Court must confirm the emergency closure of a business or the seizure of food . 
If magistrates decide premises have been shut without proper reason ,  or food has been wrongly seized or detained you have right to compensation . 
Finally ,  remember :  
 -  your local authority is ready to help if you need any advice on food safety or labelling ;  
 -  trade associations and independent consultancy services can also help ;  
 -  closer partnership between food businesses and local authorities means better public protection and fair trading . 
Introduction
The Food Safety Act and Regulations made under it aim to make sure all food offered to the public is safe to eat and is properly described . 
This leaflet explains the role of local authority environmental health and trading standards services in helping you to produce safe food and to meet your other responsibilities . 
Environmental health officers check on food safety and hygiene ;   trade standards officers on food composition and labelling . 
The leaflet describes :  
what to expect when your business is inspected under the Act ;  
what to do if you think the outcome of an inspection is wrong or not fair . 
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point  ( HACCP ) 
Practical Food Safety for Businesses
What exactly is HACCP ? 
HACCP stand for 'Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point' . 
Analysing the potential hazards in an operation ;   
Identifying the points in the operation where the hazards may occur ;  
Deciding which are critical to consumer safety . 
These are the critical control points  ( CCPs )  . 
The CCPs are monitored . 
Remedial action ,  specified in avance ,  is taken if conditions at any CCP are not within safe limits . 
Food safety  -  your responsibility
Food businesses have the main responsibility for ensuring the protection of their customers . 
A business that breaks the law faces the legal sanctions including improvement notices ,  prohibition notices and prosecution . 
So if you run a food business you need to take care that you meet your obligations . 
Leaving food safety to chance is risky  -  risky to your customers' health and lives ,  and risky to the health and life of your business . 
Where does HACCP come in ? 
HACCP is a practical technique which food businesses can use to help satisfy themselves that their products are safe . 
Some businesses ,  particularly in the food manufacturing sector ,  have recognised the value of using HACCP to identify potential hazards in their operations and control them before they result in problems . 
Many more businesses have yet to discover HACCP ,  or to put it into practice . 
The advantages
HACCP is :  
Systematic all the potential hazards are identified . 
Efficient it concentrates the control effort at the critical steps in the operation ;   
Economical it uses checks which can be done cheaply ,  quickly and easily ,  such as measuring time and temperature ,  and visual assessment ;  
Prompt fast checks allow rapid response when action is needed ;  
On the spot the process is controlled on the spot by the operator ,  not by a laboratory remote from the operation . 
How to set up HACCP for your business
Form a HACCP team . 
The team may be large or small ,  depending on the operation . 
It should be composed of people who know and understand the business's food products and their uses . 
Remember ,  a V scheme is only as good as the experts who draw it up . 
Define the process . 
The team draws up a flow chart of all the aspects of the food operation from raw materials through processing to storage and consumer handling . 
Identify the hazards and work out the CCPs . 
A hazard is anything that can harm the consumer and can be physical ,  chemical or microbiological . 
The team identifies the potential hazards associated with the food at all stages from raw materials ,  processing ,  manufacture and distribution until the point of consumption ,  assesses the likelihood of occurrence of these hazards and identifies the preventive measures necessary for their control . 
The team then identifies the steps that can be controlled to eliminate each hazard or minimise the likelihood of it occurring . 
These are CCPs . 
Recommend monitoring and control procedures . 
For each CCP the team recommends What is to be done . 
 When it is to be done and Who is to do it . 
It also lays down the Limits outside which action ,  eg referral to management or consultation with other experts ,  is needed . 
Implement controls at the CCPs . 
It is essential to make sure that the recommended monitoring and controls are actually carried out . 
This will include maintaining records of the HACCP process as well as the controls monitored at the CCP for each batch of food . 
Review . 
The design and operation of the HACCP scheme should be reviewed whenever the food operation is altered ,  however slight the alteration may seem . 
The scheme should be reviewed periodically  ( eg once a year )  even when there have been no alterations . 
Can anyone use the HACCP system ? 
The application of a full HACCP system requires the advice and guidance of experts but the principles of HACCP can be applied in any food business . 
It is important to remember that the details will vary as no two businesses are exactly alike . 
But similar principles would apply to any food business . 
Further advice
Further advice and assistance can be obtained from the food research associations ,  other reputable consultants and local environmental health departments . 
SERVICES FOR PEOPLE WITH HIV / AIDS 
There is a range of services on offer in Manchester to help and support people with HIV or AIDS in order that they are best able to exercise choice . 
How to get help
If you ,  or someone you know ,  has HIV or AIDS and needs help ,  you should contact your local Social Services Office . 
The addresses and phone numbers are at the end of this leaflet . 
Office staff will try to help you ,  either by offering you advice and information or by referring you for an assessment . 
 ( More details are in the leaflet HOW TO GET HELP FROM SOCIAL SERVICES .  ) 
If you think you only require health or voluntary sector services then you should contact these services directly . 
If you are eligible for an assessment you will be asked a range of questions about the help that you need . 
Other people involved in your care may also be consulted ,  for example a relative ,  friend or your GP . 
A care plan may then be designed for you with your agreement . 
This could involve one or more services from any of the following :  
Social Services
Social workers specialising in HIV / AIDS issues who are either hospital or community based . 
A home support service which provides 24 hour emergency and respite care . 
A specialist Welfare Rights Officer who is able to give benefits advice . 
Specialist staff in the physical and sensory disability service who work on HIV / AIDS issues as part of their responsibilities . 
Health Services
Most people with HIV / AIDS are cared for in their own homes . 
Inpatient care is at Monsall Hospital ,  Withington Hospital and Manchester Royal Infirmary . 
All three hospitals also provide of patient services which include testing and counselling services . 
A nursing team based at Monsall Hospital co - ordinates care between hospital and home . 
Voluntary Sector
There are a number of voluntary sector schemes in the City including Body Positive North West and George House Trust who offer counselling and drop - in centres as well as befriending services . 
Your local Social Services office will be able to put you in touch with voluntary groups in your area . 
More Information
If you want more information about Social Services please contact your local office . 
Addresses and phone numbers are over the page . 
Here to help you
County Information Centres
Your Information Centre
What are County Information Centres ? 
County Information Centres are first stop local information points to tell you about Lancashire County Council and the services it provides . 
Their services
Education
Libraries
Highways
Welfare Rights
Road Safety
Mueseums
Registrars
Record Office
Social Services
Fire
Planning
Public Transport
Trading Standards
Arts
Analysts
Emergency Planning
Our friendly staff will put you in touch with the relevant County Council contact if you have a detailed enquiry ,  for example ,  on Education or Social Services . 
They will personally deal with straightforward enquiries such as requests for tourist or public transport information . 
You can also obtain the name and address or make an appointment to see your local County Councillor . 
Throughout Lancashire there are 17 Centres which are part of the Chief Executive / Clerk's Department and the responsibility of the County Public Relations Officer  ( Tel .  01772 263535 )  . 
The Centres were set up following national research carried out by MORI which clearly showed that the one improvement in local government service most requested was a local office where people could talk to someone about their council services . 
Since the first Centre opened in Lancashire in 1987 over eight million people have been helped . 
What is available ? 
County Information Centres offer a comprehensive range of free publications on all County Council services ,  leaflets in foreign and ethnic minority languages and sell publications ,  souvenirs ,  promotional items ,  bus tickets ,  stamps and telephone cards . 
Welfare Rights Advice
Blackpool and Leyland Information Centres provide a valuable Welfare Rights counselling service and 'drop in' facilities for Welfare Rights enquiries exist at Blackburn ,  Burnley ,  Clitheroe ,  Fleetwood ,  Lytham ,  Ormskirk and Skelmersdale Centres . 
Trading Standards Hotline
A Trading Standards Hotline at Lancaster and Blackburn Information Centres can link you directly with Trading Standards experts . 
Computer Information
Even when the Centres are closed we provide a service . 
A 24 hour computer system giving timetable and tourism information including events ,  attractions ,  accommodation and an A - Z of County Council services operates free of charge in most Centers . 
This system works via a touchpad and offers one of the widest ranging computer information services in the country . 
Help for Tourists
The Centres offer tourists and visitors a wide variety of literature on tourist attractions and provide an Accommodation Booking Service and ticket sales to attractions . 
The districts of Morecambe ,  Rossendale and Ribble Valley operate joint Centres with the County Council . 
So whether you want to know which schools are available for your children ,  which homes can care for your elderly relatives or the time of your next bus home ,  you can be sure of a courteous welcome and helpful service ,  whereever you see the distinctive yellow County Information Centre sign . 
Financial help if you work or are looking for work 
If you are looking for work you need to know what services we can offer . 
You and anyone who depends on you may also need financial help until you start work . 
If you are just starting a job or starting work for the first time ,  you may need help until you get your first pay . 
Or if you are working but do not have enough money coming in ,  you may need help to make ends meet . 
This leaflet gives basic advice on help you may be able to get . 
We want to make sure you and your family get the right help ,  at the right time ,  in the right way . 
If you have a question which is not answered in this leaflet ,  or if you just want more advice ,  please contact your Jobcentre ,  Inland Revenue ,  or social security office . 
See Where to get help and advice on page 32 of this leaflet for details . 
Help you may be able to get
Check first what help you may be able to get . 
If you are not working or working on average less than 16 hours a week :  check Jobseeker's Allowance see page 8 . 
If you and your partner are on a low income and any of the following apply
you are sick or disabled
you are aged 60 or over
you are a lone parent
you are caring for someone who is ill or disabled
you are registered blind : 
check Income Support see page 12 . 
We use partner to mean a person you are married to or a person you are living with as if you are married to them . 
If you need immediate help with a short - term need in an emergency or as a result of a disaster :  check Social Fund Crisis Loans see page 13 . 
If you pay rent or council tax :  check Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit see page 13 . 
If you want to know about the main schemes to help you start work :  check Starting work schemes see page 14 . 
If you are a lone parent and your Income Support or income - based Jobseeker's Allowance stops because of work :  check Lone Parent Run - on see page 15 . 
If you have been getting Housing Benefit or Council Tax Benefit and your income - based Jobseeker's Allowance or Income Support stops because of work :  check Extended Payment of Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit see page 15 . 
If you are sick or disabled and are thinking of working :  check Sick or disabled see page 16 . 
If you or your partner work on average 16 hours a week or more and are bringing up a child :  check Working Families' Tax Credit see page 22 . 
If you are aged 16 or over ,  disabled and working 16 hours a week or more :  check Disabled Person's Tax Credit see page 23 . 
If you want to know how voluntary work affects benefits :  check Voluntary work see page 24 . 
If you want to start some work that will help you with your sickness or disability check Therapeutic work see page 27 . 
Other help
The Social Fund see page 28 . 
Help with health costs see page 29 . 
How to claim see page 30 . 
Where to get help and advice see page 32 . 
National Insurance  ( NI ) 
For more information about NI contributions ,  contact your Inland Revenue  ( NI contributions )  office . 
For your nearest Inland Revenue office ,  look in the business numbers section of the phone book . 
Help from your Jobcentre
As soon as you need work ,  you should contact your local Jobcentre . 
If you need benefits ,  you may lose money if you do not claim straight away . 
Please have your National Insurance  ( NI )  number ready . 
You can usually find this number on your : 
 -  NI number card
 -  P45 tax form
 -  P60 certificate for pay ,  tax and NI contributions
 -  Payslip
 -  Letters from a social security office . 
If you want to claim benefit for your partner ,  please also have their NI number ready . 
We use partner to mean a person you are married to or a person you are living with as if you are married to them . 
If you and your partner claim Jobseeker's Allowance on or after 19 March 2001 ,  are aged under 25 and are not bringing up children ,  you may have to make a joint claim . 
For more information ,  contact your Jobcentre . 
We will ask you about your situation ,  and what kind of help you want  -  whether you just want help finding a job ,  or if you want to claim benefits too . 
We will give you information about what you can do to find a job and what we can do to help . 
We will give you information about Jobseeker's Allowance and other benefits you may be able to get . 
If you want to claim Jobseeker's Allowance we will arrange an interview . 
Jobseeker's Allowance  ( JSA ) 
General rules
If you are capable of working
If you are available for work
If you are actively seeking work
Are you : 
Under 65  ( for men )  or under 60  ( for women )  ? 
Not working ,  or working on average less than 16 hours a week ? 
If YES to both ,  claim JSA . 
If you are on a low income you may be able to get income - based JSA ,  even if you have not paid NI contributions ,  see page 8 . 
You cannot usually get JSA if you are aged under 18 ,  see page 9 . 
People who are studying full - time cannot usually get JSA . 
You can get this from your Jobcentre or social security office . 
Redundancy payments and other money you get when a job ends may affect JSA and the date you can get JSA from . 
Contribution - based JSA
For details of the NI contributions you need to have paid ,  contact your Jobcentre . 
You cannot get contribution - based JSA if you have only been paying NI contributions for self - employment . 
You may be able to get income - based JSA . 
Contribution - based JSA is paid at a fixed rate based on your age for up to 182 days . 
Contribution - based JSA is reduced if you have an occupational or personal pension over a certain amount . 
If you are entitled to contribution - based JSA ,  but your income is still below a certain level ,  you may be able to get income - based JSA . 
How to claim see page 30 . 
Income - based JSA
Savings over  £8,000 usually mean you cannot get income - based JSA . 
Savings over  £3,000 usually affect how much income - based JSA you can get . 
If you have a partner who works an average of 24 hours a week or more you cannot usually get income - based JSA . 
Their work does not affect contribution - based JSA . 
If you have a partner who works an average of less than 24 hours a week ,  their earnings will usually affect the amount of income - based JSA you can get . 
You may be able to get extra money if you are buying your home and you may also get help with some other housing costs . 
You can usually get extra money for your family . 
Pregnant women and children under age five get free milk and vitamins . 
How to claim see page 30 . 
16 and 17 year olds
If you are an unemployed 16 or 17 year old you may be able to get income - based JSA for a short period in special circumstances . 
For example ,  if one of the following applies : 
 -  You are forced to live away from your parents and will suffer severe hardship if you do not get JSA
 -  You are a member of a couple who are responsible for a child . 
If you want more information about these special circumstances ,  contact your Jobcentre . 
Before you go to your Jobcentre to claim JSA ,  you should register at your Careers Service office for training and work . 
If they think you may be able to get JSA ,  they will give you a form to take to the Jobcentre . 
If you decide to claim Jobseeker's Allowance  ( JSA )  ,  we will give you an appointment for a New Jobseeker Interview and a claim form . 
If you need help filling in the form ,  we can arrange this . 
At the interview ,  an Employment Service Adviser will
 -  make sure you understand the rules for JSA
 -  discuss the kinds of work you are looking for and the best ways of finding a job
 -  give you information about jobs ,  training and other opportunities
 -  check that you have filled in your form fully and given us all the information we need . 
To get JSA you must have a Jobseeker's Agreement . 
You and the adviser will make this agreement at this interview ,  and you will both sign it . 
If you need a private room for your interview or want us to provide someone to help you at the interview ,  for example an interpreter ,  please let us know in advance . 
You must usually come to the Jobcentre every two weeks to confirm that you are still entitled to JSA . 
We will also discuss how your job search is going and if we can help . 
As well as seeing us every two weeks ,  you must also come to regular ,  more detailed interviews to look at your situation . 
If you are aged 60 or over you can choose to get Income Support and will not have to come to the Jobcentre . 
Jobseeker's Agreement
Your Jobseeker's Agreement will include details of : 
 -  your availability for work
 -  the kind of work you are looking for
 -  what you will do to look for work and improve your chances of finding work . 
If you and the adviser cannot agree on the content of the Jobseeker's Agreement ,  a decision maker will decide if the proposed contents are reasonable . 
If you do not agree with their decision ,  you can ask for it to be looked at again by another decision maker . 
If you still do not agree ,  you can appeal . 
You will not usually be able to get Jobseeker's Allowance until you have a Jobseeker's Agreement . 
In some situations you may be able to get a reduced allowance under the hardship provision . 
See next page . 
Hardship provision
You may be able to get a reduced amount of JSA under the hardship provision . 
You can do this if your JSA cannot be paid under the normal rules for any of the following reasons : 
 -  you are not available for work
 -  you are not actively seeking work
 -  you do not have a Jobseeker's Agreement
 -  you unreasonably make yourself unemployed . 
For example ,  you leave your job voluntarily without good reason ,  you lose a job because of misconduct or you turn down a job offer
 -  there is a doubt about whether any of these apply to you
 -  you have not yet had a decision on your JSA
You must be able to show that you or someone in your household would suffer hardship if you do not receive any JSA . 
If you are in a vulnerable group and you qualify for a hardship payment ,  you will be paid the next time you would usually get your JSA . 
You are in a vulnerable group if you or your partner : 
 -  are pregnant
 -  are looking after children
 -  are single and looking after a 16 or 17 year old
 -  have a disability
 -  have a long - term physical medical condition
 -  are caring for someone who is long - term sick or disabled
 -  are a young person who has left local authority care in the last three years . 
 -  are aged 16 or 17 ,  in some circumstances . 
If you are not in a vulnerable group you will have to wait at least two weeks until you become entitled to a hardship paymen . 
This means you may have to wait for upto four weeks . 
From 19 March 2001 ,  these rules apply to both you and your partner if you have a joint claim . 
For more information contact your Jobcentre . 
How to claim see page 30 . 
Income Support
For people on a low income
Savings over  £8,000 usually mean you cannot get Income Support 
If you have to sign on at the Jobcentre ,  you cannot get Income Support
Are you : 
Aged 16 or over ? 
On a low income ? 
Not working ,  or working on average less than 16 hours a week ? 
If YES to all ,  claim Income Support . 
Drugs A Parent's Guide
The signs
The dangers
What to do
If you find that your child has been using drugs what can you do ? 
This is a question with as many different answers as there are families . 
You must make your own decisions but this booklet will help you . 
Why are there different answers ? 
There are many different kinds of drugs  -  some like tobacco are legal ,  others like Ecstasy and cannabis are not . 
Different drugs have different effects on people ;   some of these effects are more dangerous than others . 
Some drugs are used in more unsafe ways than others .  
 for example ,  injecting drugs are more dangerous than sniffing or smoking them . 
Some drugs are more socially acceptable than others . 
Every child is different and the reasons why they might turn to drugs will be varied . 
The things which will help them stop using drugs ,  or help them to moderate their use of drugs ,  will also be varied . 
Parents differ in the way they want to handle drug taking by their children . 
Some parents will be totally opposed to all drug taking . 
There are different facilities for helping young people with drug problems in different parts of the country . 
So where you live may affect what help you can get if you need it . 
Do you know enough about drugs ? 
Most parents are not well - informed about the effects of various drugs ;   there is a lot of confusing and inaccurate information around . 
We can only indicate the most common effects of different drugs because so much depends on the individual who is taking them and the setting in which drugs are used . 
Also there are no standards of 'quality control' for illegal drugs .  
  they may be adulterated with other substances to increase profits . 
Having reliable information will help you understand the subject and build your own confidence in talking about drugs with your child . 
Ultimately ,  however ,  the soundness of your family relationships will be more important than a sound knowledge of drugs . 
There are no hard or soft drugs ,  no good or bad drugs . 
It all depends what people do with them and the circumstances under which drugs are used . 
Morphine is prescribed for cancer patients in pain without them getting 'hooked' on the drug . 
By contrast ,  one LSD trip might result in psychological damage to somebody with latent mental illness . 
The availability of drugs . 
If your child wants to take drugs illegally ,  it is likely that they will eventually find somebody who can supply them . 
The efforts of the police and customs will never be able to completely stop illegal drugs coming into the country . 
However ,  the image of pushers hanging around school playground waiting to give children samples is essentially wrong . 
Of those young people who try illegal drugs ,  most obtain them from friends . 
As a rule ,  experimentation with drugs such as cannabis and LSD does not start until mid / late teens . 
Even then ,  very few in this age range will have access to heroin ,  crack or cocaine . 
The majority of regular drug users are in their twenties . 
What drugs are available in any given area will vary according to price ,  fashion ,  geographical location and so on . 
It is more difficult for your children to obtain illegal drugs than legal drugs and solvents like glue and butane gas . 
How can you educate your children about drugs ? 
So it isn't possible to control supply ,  what can we do ? 
Prevention is generally better than cure ,  so how can you help your child develop a sensible ,  informed attitude to drugs ? 
Perhaps the most important thing that you ,  as a parent ,  can do is to set an example . 
Your drug use may have a big effect on your child's use . 
Mum might explain why she takes painkillers when she has a period . 
Dad might explain that he likes a drink with his friends ,  but never drives afterwards . 
You can probably think of other examples . 
Therefore ,  it is important that children understand why we are taking the drugs .  
 And what we do and feel is appropriate and inappropriate drug use . 
This process can start when children are quite young ,  and it need to continue throughout childhood and adolescence . 
Some parents will also have used drugs illegally in the past . 
If this issue is raised with your children ,  express honestly both the pleasures and the problems of that time of your life . 
Parents who will still use drugs illegally need to think about what they will say to their children if they are discovered ,  smoking cannabis for example . 
If drug use is discussed in appropriate contexts it may lose some of its attraction as a secretive and mysterious thing to do . 
Why do young people take drugs ? 
What can you do about it ? 
Everyone is individual and will have their own particular reasons for using drugs . 
Parents try to deal with drug use by their children will need to make sure that they don't jump to conclusions . 
Instead ,  they need to listen to their child's own explanations to form a round view . 
However ,  here are some reasons which are quite common :  
The opportunity rose and the youngster just tried it . 
Don't panic ! 
Although parents may want to express their concern very strongly and show their child how upset they are ,  they should think about how to do this in the most constructive way . 
In this example there may no long - term problem . 
A discussion ,  a warning ,  and some monitoring of behaviour may be appropriate . 
Just because a youngster has tried a drug does not make them an 'addict' . 
Over - reaction by parents and other adults may turn what was an isolated incident into attention - seeking behaviour or a focus for opposition . 
Similarly ,  drugtaking may be a response to loneliness ,  feeling inadequate or lacking self - esteem or confidence . 
If so ,  it is important to find this out and help the young person overcome these difficulties without turning to drugs . 
Teenagers often have problems with their self - image and may need reassurance from parents that they are loved . 
What about longer term use ? 
If the use of drugs involves a group of youngsters ,  then providing alternative leisure activities which are more interesting and more fun than drugs seems to be the best approach . 
Trips out of town and sport can be good ways of making drugtaking less interesting and therefore less likely . 
Parents shouldn't just have this to youth workers ,  but get involved themselves ,  perhaps starting projects with the help of the youth services . 
For those few young people who are dependent on drugs a lot of careful work may be needed . 
It isn't a good idea to focus too much on the use of drugs ,  but rather on the other problems and difficulties that the young person has . 
If they can be helped with these problems then they will probably stop ,  or at least reduce ,  their drug intake . 
In the meantime ,  it is sensible to give advice on how to reduce damage to health . 
How other parents have coped . 
A story based on the real - life experience of parents and children . 
The importance of understanding . 
Joe ,  then aged 15 ,  lived with his mother and stepfather ,  Eddie .  
 Joe and Eddie were never really close but they managed to get along well enough at first . 
Then a spell of unemployment for Eddie led to heavy drinking and frequent family squabbles . 
Seeing his mother so upset made Joe angry . 
He blamed his stepfather ,  and said so . 
When a friend offered him something called skag  ( heroin )  he accepted . 
It seemed to make him fell better about everything . 
After that ,  whenever he felt particularly down he'd get hold of some more heroin . 
It didn't take Joe's mum long to guess what was going on . 
She realised that family problems had a lot to do with it ,  and did her best to reassure Joe about her love for him . 
Importantly ,  she helped Eddie to see what was happening ,  so that they could work out their own problems . 
Joe felt happier knowing that his mother really cared about him and that even Eddie seemed to be trying harder to keep the family peace . 
Joe can now live without drugs . 
You ,  your child and the law . 
Nobody below ten years of age in England and Wales ,  or below in Scotland ,  can be convicted of a criminal offence . 
Above these ages ,  it all depends on the drugs the youngster is taking or supplying . 
Maximum sentences for offending against the Misuse of Drugs Act are severe . 
First offenders who have a drug for their own use are likely to get off with a fine and may even just be cautioned by the police . 
But regular offenders ,  people selling drugs or drug smugglers ,  mighty have all their money ,  goods and property confiscated and be imprisoned for many years  -  the current maximum for drug trafficking is life imprisonment . 
However ,  young people are unlikely to suffer the worst of these penalties . 
In England and Wales youngsters under 17 years of age are usually dealt with by a Juvenile Court . 
This court has powers to fine parent or child ,  or to make the offender attend a variety of institutions as an alternative to being sent to prison . 
Your legal responsibilities . 
Most parents are aware that their sons or daughters might be fined or imprisoned for possessing or supplying illegal drugs . 
But many don't realise that it is possible to fall foul of the law ,  even without touching drugs . 
Just allowing anyone on your 'premises' to produce or supply illegal drugs to another person is itself an offence . 
So if a parent knows that their son or daughter is sharing illegal drugs with a friend in their home ,  but does nothing to stop it ,  than the parent has committed an offence . 
If you find drugs
If a parent or other member of the public finds what they think is an illegal drug ,  they must according to the law either hand it to the police or destroy it to prevent another person committing an offence with the drug . 
Do I have to tell the police ?  
Parents do not have to tell the police if they know or suspect their children  ( or anyone else )  are taking or supplying illegal drugs . 
Drugs :   A Guide
There is a large range of drugs  -  some illegal ,  some not  -  that can be misused with varying effects . 
This guide covers the main types and describes common effects and methods of use . 
There is a brief indication of slang terms you may hear . 
However ,  these can be very localised and change rapidly . 
These terms are best avoided when talking to children as they can trivialise the subject . 
Also you might look silly using slang terms no longer in fashion . 
Alcohol and tobacco are excluded from this guide because most people are already familiar with them ,  even though young people are more likely to use them on a long term basis with potentially serious consequences for health . 
Some terms explained . 
Physical dependence :   where the body gets used to the presence of a drug and the person has to keep taking it to prevent withdrawal symptoms . 
Withdrawal :   where the body reacts to the drug being stopped . 
Psychological dependence :   where the persons think they need to carry on using drugs to cope with life . 
Tolerance :   where increasing amounts of the drugs are needed . 
Solvents
Solvents sniffing is not illegal ;   after drinking and smoking ,  solvents are the substances young people are most likely to experiment with . 
The range of products of this type is extensive and widely available and includes : 
Aerosol sprays  ( like hairspray or pain - relieving sprays )  . 
 Butane gas  ( used as cigarette lighter fuel )  . 
Solvent - based - glues  ( like Evo - Stik )  . 
Dry - cleaning fluids . 
Paint and paint thinners . 
Correcting fluids  ( like Tipp - Ex )  . 
Petrol . 
Solvent misuse is covered in the booklet 'Solvents  -  A parent's guide' . 
Cannabis
cannabis is the most commonly used of the illegal drugs . 
It is usually smoked in the form of resin ,  a brown solid mass which is crumbled and mixed with tobacco . 
A quarter of an ounce of cannabis resin costs between  £15 - 25 and would make about 20 cannabis cigarettes . 
Not everyone gets much effect from cannabis . 
The most common effects are relaxation ,  talkativeness ,  a sense of well - being and a heightened perception of music and colour . 
Sometimes there can be temporary anxiety or mild hallucinations
One of the main dangers of cannabis is the state of intoxication itself . 
The person may not be able to drive ,  cross roads or operate machinery safely . 
People do not become physically dependent on cannabis ,  but can become psychologically dependent for enjoyment ,  or coping with life . 
Like tobacco ,  long - term ,  regular and heavy cannabis smoking may cause respiratory diseases such as bronchitis or lung cancer . 
The belief still persists that smoking cannabis leads to the use of so - called 'hard' drugs like heroin . 
The theory is that when people no longer achieve a 'high' from cannabis ,  they try something stronger . 
However ,  there is nothing 'in' cannabis itself which predisposes users to try heroin . 
Stimulants
These drugs stimulate the nerve system ,  banish tiredness for a time and produce feelings of alertness and confidence . 
Amphetamine . 
This is the most common illegal stimulant . 
In the sixties ,  the drug came in pill form purple hearts . 
Nowadays ,  it is mainly found as a white powder which is usually sniffed ,  but can also be injected . 
Amphetamine is relatively cheap  ( often no more than  £15 a gram )  and also heavily cut with other substances that look like the drug . 
One dose of amphetamine can last three to four hours . 
Users quickly establish a tolerance and heavy users can experience unpleasant side - effects like disturbed sleep ,  loss of appetite ,  uncomfortable itching leading to prolonged scratching and feelings of acute anxiety of paranoia . 
Even after long - term regular use there are no dangerous withdrawal symptoms . 
However the user may feel tired ,  hungry ,  depressed or even suicidal in the period immediately after stopping using the drug and continue to feel unwell for some time . 
As a powerful stimulant drug ,  its use might be dangerous for those with any kind of heart conditions or a history of major psychiatric disorder . 
Cocaine and crack . 
Cocaine is a white powder which is usually sniffed ,  but can also be injected . 
Crack or freebase is cocaine that can be smoked . 
It looks like a small crystal about the size of a raisin and is smoked in a pipe or placed on a place of tin foil ,  heated and the vapours inhaled . 
Cocaine powder is an expensive drug ,  both because of the actual cost  ( anything up to  £100 a gram )  and because the effect of any one dose is only about 20 - 30 minutes . 
Crack is also expensive ;   each small crystal can cost  £20 and it lasts only about 10 - 20 minutes . 
The effects and longer - term consequences of the drug are similar to those of amphetamine ,  except that smoking a powerful drug may cause respiratory problems such as shortness of breath and chest pains . 
Ecstasy
Ecstasy is usually available as a white ,  brown ,  pink or yellow tablet ,  or coloured capsules ,  selling at anything from  £12 - 25 each . 
'White doves' ,  'disco burgers' and 'New Yorkers' are some common types . 
The effects start after about 20 minutes and can last several hours . 
Users say that the drug has a calming effect with heightened perceptions of colours and sounds . 
Co - ordination may be affected by Ecstasy ,  so it could be dangerous to drive or operate machinery under its influence . 
At higher doses ,  Amphetamine - like effects begin to take over and the user may feel anxious or confused . 
If the drug is taken regularly over few days ,  the user could suffer temporary paranoia and insomnia . 
Tolerance builds up to the effects of the drug ,  but Ecstasy is not physically addictive . 
However as the drug acts like a stimulant ,  those with heart conditions ,  high blood pressure or subject to epileptic fits or any kind of mental illness should avoid using it . 
There have been some deaths associated with Ecstasy .  
  it would appear that the young people concerned may have been particularly susceptible to the stimulant effects ,  although why is yet unclear . 
Hallucinogens
The most commonly used hallucinogens are LSD  ( acid )  and Liberty Cap mushrooms  ( 'magic mushrooms ,  shrooms or mushies' ) 
LSD is manufactured illegally ;   minute quantities are impregnated into small squares of blotting paper which are then dissolved on the tongue . 
These squares often carry colourful abstract designs or pictures of cartoon or film characters such as the Pink Panther . 
LSD may be sold using the designs as trade names eg 'strawberries' or 'Chinese dragon' . 
'Magic mushrooms' grow wild in many parts of the country and it is not illegal to pick and eat them raw . 
However ,  each mushroom contains the drug psilocybin  -  this is the drug that causes the hallucinogenic effects and it is an illegal drug like LSD . 
Preparing the mushrooms eg cooking or brewing or even just drying them out might result in a criminal charge . 
These drugs are not addictive and are not known to cause damaging physical effects on the body . 
How they affect the mind will depend on how the person is feeling at the time and whether or not the surroundings are friendly and supportive . 
Experiences will vary from visions of joy and beauty to waking nightmares . 
Perceptions of the world will appear distorted . 
The main danger of any hallucinogenic drug is that the experience may be damaging to someone with mental illness or worse ,  may trigger a psychotic response in somebody whose condition was undiagnosed . 
Less seriously ,  inexperienced users can feel confused and disoriented for some time after taking the drug and may need reassurance that they are not going crazy . 
Users may also experience something called a 'flashback'  -  where the 'trip' is relived without actually taking the drug . 
A specific danger with mushrooms is picking the wrong ones  -  some species are highly poisonous . 
Tranquillisers and sedatives
The most commonly prescribed tranquillisers belong to a group known as benzodiazepines  -  the best known being Valium ,  Ativan and Librium . 
These drugs are only meant to be prescribed for few weeks to help cope with a crisis . 
However ,  over 250 , 000 people in this country have regular prescriptions for those drugs ,  some stretching over several years . 
It is easy to become psychologically dependent and people who try and stop may suffer very unpleasant withdrawal symptoms . 
These drugs are commonly found in many medicine cabinets . 
Young people may experiment with them and some types may even be sold on the streets . 
It is difficult to overdose these drugs ,  unless other sedatives like alcohol are used at the same time . 
Anabolic Steroids
These are not to be confused with the various corticosteroid drugs often prescribed by doctors for conditions such as rheumatold arthritis and Crohn's Disease and also hormone replacement therapy . 
Anabolic steroids have only a very limited use in ordinary medicine such as building up muscle in a patient who has been bedridden for some time . 
They are misused by some athletes and bodybuilders in order to increase muscle size and because they are derived from the male hormone testosterone ,  they also stimulate aggression . 
Athletes claim this helps them to train harder and recover more quickly from injury . 
There are many potential problems associated with these drugs . 
Often the drugs are injected using shared equipment with the attendant risks of infection ;   
In young people ,  use of these drugs can restrict growth ;  
In men ,  there may be temporary side effects on the reproductive system ,  such as reduced sex drive and lowered sperm count ;  
In women ,  'masculine' side effects such as deeper voice and smaller breasts may not be reversible when drug use ceases ;  
Although rare ,  steriods may cause death from liver cancer . 
These drugs often circulate in gymnasiums and health clubs . 
It is not illegal to possess them ,  but it is illegal to supply them to anybody under 18 . 
Heroin
Heroin can be injected ,  sniffed or smoked . 
For smoking ,  the drug is placed on some tin foil or perhaps a spoon and then heated . 
The fumes are then inhaled ,  a method sometimes known as 'chasing' or 'chasing the dragon' . 
On the streets ,  heroin will be cut with other substances such as glucose and wrapped for sale in small plastic bags ;   these 'wraps' or 'bags' containing heroin might sell for perhaps  £5 or  £10 . 
Regular users say that heroin produces a sense of warm and pleasant drowsiness . 
However ,  for the novice there can be immediate and unpleasant side - effects like nausea and vomiting ,  which will often deter somebody experimenting with the drug ,  from ever trying it again . 
Someone 'high' on heroin will often be able to function relatively normally ,  though they may appear slightly drowsy and their speech slurred . 
As well as developing tolerance to the drug ,  regular heroin users are often in poor health because of an inadequate diet . 
They often suffer from constipation and among women the menstrual cycle is often interrupted . 
Even among those who have experienced with heroin ,  only a portion will go on to be regular users . 
It may take several weeks or months of heavy ,  regular use to become physically addicted . 
Injecting
Injecting carries with it a ,  number of risk . 
Infection where injecting equipment is unsterile and shared . 
The most serious injection is HIV  ( which causes AIDS )  ,  but also hepatitis ;  
Abscesses and thrombosis and other conditions from injecting drugs in pill form that were never intended for injection ;  
Gangrene  ( from hitting an artery instead of a vein )  and blood poisoning caused by a wound becoming infected ;  
Overdose when a drug  ( of unknown strength )  is delivered directly into the bloodstream . 
Injecting can be one of the most dangerous ways of taking drugs . 
How to spot drug taking . 
It isn't easy  -  especially when a child first tries drugs or only takes them occasionally . 
many signs are just like the normal signs of growing up . 
So if your child suddenly becomes moody or distant  -  don't jump to conclusions . 
Getting help
Sometimes things get out of hand . 
Parents may be unwilling or unable to tackle a drug problem at its earliest stages ;  
 they may not even know there's a problem until it's serious and they can no longer cope . 
Specialist services . 
If you feel you need help from a specialist drug service ,  but are unable to find one locally ,  contact the Standing Conference on Drug Abuse at Waterbridge House ,  32 - 36 Loman Street ,  London SE1 0EE . 
Telephone 071 - 928 - 9500 . 
Day Projects ,  Information and Advisory Services . 
These are places that parents and drug users can phone or visit  ( usually by appointment only )  for advice on drugs or associated problems  ( housing ,  legal ,  etc ) 
For most parents this kind of project will be the only drug agency they approach ,  either as a way into treatment or because they provide sufficient advice and support to enable the family to cope . 
Release  -  runs a national 24 - hour emergency telephone service ,  particularly useful if someone has been arrested for a drug offence  -  phone 071 - 603 - 8654 . 
Release also has a drug advice line ,  available during normal office hours ,  telephone 071 - 729 - 9904 . 
Support services for families of drug users
Adfam National ,  the charity for the families and friends of drug users ,  provides a National Helpline offering information and confidential support  -  phone 071 - 638 - 3700 . 
Families Anonymous  -  self - help support group for parents of drug users that has branches in various parts of the country .  
 phone 071 - 281 - 8889 for further details . 
Hospital Clinics
There is an established network of hospital clinics for the treatment of mainly heroin addiction . 
Some of these and some GPs too will prescribe reducing doses of methadone ,  a drug like a heroin ,  to ease users of heroin ,  though clinics do differ greatly in the treatment they offer . 
Clinics are usually out - patient only ,  though some are able to take a few drug users in for treatment . 
They may have social workers and psychologists to help with non - medical problems . 
Most clinics are only geared to dealing with very heavy users of opiate - type drugs ,  and are not suitable for help with most other drug problems . 
Community Drug Teams
In various parts of the country ,  teams have been set up comprising ,  for example ,  a social worker ,  a community psychiatric nurse ,  a drugs worker and other professionals . 
Anybody can make a referral  ( family doctor ,  etc )  or users can go themselves . 
Contact SCODA for more details . 
Residential services . 
These are usually for those who have a serious long - standing problems . 
Contact SCODA for more details about these services . 
For services in Scotland contact :   Scottish Drugs Forum ,  5 Oswald Street ,  Glasgow G1 4QR .  
Telphone :   041 - 221 - 1175 . 
For services in Wales contact :   Welsh Office Drugs Unit ,  Welsh Office ,  Cathays Park ,  Cardiff CF1 3NQ .  
Telephone :   0222 - 825111 . 
What to do in emergency . 
Should the worst happen and you find your child drowsy or unconscious ,  it's important that you know what to do . 
it could save their life . 
First make sure they've got fresh air . 
Then turn them on their side and try not to leave them alone  ( otherwise if they are sick ,  they may inhale vomit )  . 
Dial 999 and ask for an ambulance . 
Finally ,  collect any powders ,  tablets or anything else that may have been used in taking the drug  -  give them to the ambulance driver . 
A Shopper's Guide
Your legal rights
How to complain
Where to get help
Foreword
from John Bridgeman ,  Director General ,  Office of Fair Trading
Many people think they have grounds for complaint about something they have bought or a service they have received . 
Although some do complain ,  they meet with varying degrees of success . 
I believe that where there are genuine grounds for complaint these success rates can be improved . 
This booklet gives you advice about how to tackle your shopping and service problems . 
You will find general information about your legal rights and how to make a complaint ,  along with advice on dealing with specific problem areas such as cars ,  furniture and holidays . 
This booklet cannot ,  however ,  cover all these areas in detail
At the back ,  you will find a number of organisations which can help ,  along with the address to contact for further Office of Fair Trading publications . 
Before you buy
Do you know what precautions to take when buying a used car ? 
What do you do if you buy a new fridge - freezer and it does not work properly ? 
Are you helpless in the hands of a mail - order company which takes your money but sends you faulty goods ? 
Do you dread a call from a doorstep salesman ? 
Is you knowledge of your legal rights hazy ?  Do you know the most effective way of making a complaint ? 
With a little care ,  many consumer problems can be avoided . 
Before you hand over your money ,  ask yourself if what you are buying is really what you are looking for and how much you can afford . 
Think carefully about how you are going to pay :  with cash or credit ,  or in some other way . 
Shop around and compare prices and other factors  ( for example after - sales service )  . 
Do not be persuaded into buying something on the spur of the moment . 
Think it through first . 
And try to go to traders who have a good reputation for treating their customers fairly . 
Getting a satisfactory outcome from making a complaint can sometimes be easy  -  but not always . 
Most traders do act fairly and try to resolve complaints effectively ,  but it can sometimes be difficult to get a problem sorted out ,  particularly if the item or service was expensive  -  for example ,  car repairs ,  home improvements or household appliances . 
Do not give up at the first hurdle of the trader is unhelpful or even obstructive . 
If you have a valid compliant ,  you have a right to have the problem sorted out . 
It may take some effort on your part but keep trying . 
The law is on your side if you have good cause for complaint . 
In some cases it may be necessary to go to court to get the matter settled . 
This is not as difficult as it sounds and just the threat of it could be enough to resolve matters . 
Your legal rights
Safety
It is an offence for a supplier to sell goods unless they are safe . 
This applies to both new and secondhand products ,  but not to antiques or to goods needing repair or reconditioning ,  provided you were clearly informed of this fact . 
If you believe you have bought unsafe goods ,  you should contact the trading standards department of your local authority . 
Prompt action may help prevent accident of injury to other customers . 
If new goods turn out to be unsafe and cause death ,  personal injury or damage to other property intended for personal use ,  you may have a claim against the manufacturer . 
Buying goods
The law says that goods must be : 
Of satisfactory quality  -  they must meet the standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable bearing in mind the way they were described ,  what they cost and any other relevant circumstances . 
This rule covers ,  for instance ,  the appearance and finish of the goods ,  their safety ,  and their durability . 
Goods must be free from defects ,  even minor ones ,  except when they have been brought to your attention by the seller ,  for example ,  if the goods are said to be shop - soiled . 
fit for their purposes ,  including any particular purpose mentioned by you to the seller  -  for example ,  if you are buying a computer game and explain that you want one which can be played on a particular type of machine ,  the seller must not give you one that cannot ; 
as described  -  on the package or a display sign ,  or by the seller . 
If you are told that a shirt is 100 %  cotton ,  then it should not turn out to be cotton and polyester . 
These are your statutory rights . 
All goods bought or hired from a trader  -  whether from shops ,  street markets ,  mail order catalogues or door - to - door sellers  -  are covered by these rights . 
This includes goods bought in sales . 
When you decide to complain ,  bear in mind how the item was described . 
A new item must look new and unspoiled as well as work properly ,  but if the goods are secondhand or 'seconds' ,  then you cannot expect perfect quality . 
Many traders have goodwill policies that go beyond your statutory rights . 
For example ,  some stores will allow you to exchange goods which are not faulty ,  such as clothes which are the wrong size . 
If things go wrong
If there is something wrong with what you buy ,  tell the seller as soon as possible . 
If you are unable to return to the shop within a few days of making the purchase ,  it is a good idea to telephone to let it know about your complaint . 
Make a note of the conversation and to whom you spoke . 
If you tell the seller promptly that the goods are faulty and you do not want them you should be able to get you money back . 
As long as you have not legally 'accepted' the goods you can still 'reject' them  -  that is ,  refuse to accept them . 
One of the ways you 'accept' goods is by keeping them ,  without complaint ,  after you have had a reasonable time to examine them
What is reasonable is not fixed ;  it depends on all the circumstances . 
But normally you can at least take your purchase home and try it out . 
If ,  however ,  you delay in examining what you have bought ,  or in telling the seller about a fault ,  then you may lose your right to reject . 
Note that if you signed an 'acceptance note' on receiving goods ,  this does not mean you have signed away your right to reject . 
You still have a reasonable time to examine them . 
Letting the seller try to put faulty goods right also has no effect on your rights
 if the repair fails ,  you still have any right to reject that you had when you agreed to the repair . 
When you reject faulty goods you may be offered a replacement ,  free repair or credit note . 
You do not have to agree to any such offer . 
You can insist on having your money back in full . 
If you accept a credit note ,  you will not usually be able to exchange it for cash later on . 
So you may be left with an unwanted credit note if you cannot find anything else you like in the shop . 
Moreover ,  some credit notes may be valid for only a limited period . 
Once you have ,  in the legal sense ,  'accepted goods , ' you lose your right to a full refund . 
You can only claim compensation ,  and you have to keep your claim to a reasonable minimum . 
Normally you have to accept an offer to put the goods right ,  or the cost of a repair . 
Some goods have manufacturers' guarantees . 
These are useful when your statutory rights no longer apply . 
Claiming under guarantees often results in fewer quibbles than relying on the statutory rights ,  provided you complain within the guarantee period . 
See pages 50 - 52 for more on guarantees . 
Do not be put off by traders trying to talk their way out of their responsibilities
The law says it is up to the seller to deal with complaints about defective goods or other failures to comply with your statutory rights . 
So do not accept the excuse that 'it's the manufacturer's faults , ' although you may have additional rights against the manufacturer under a guarantee . 
You have the same rights when you buy sales goods as at any other time ;  the seller cannot get away with notices saying there are no refunds on sales goods . 
Think twice before you buy from a trader who displays a notice like this . 
It is against the law ,  and local authorities can prosecute the trader . 
See page 20 on exclusion clauses . 
Exclusion clauses are types of small print which try to limit a trader's responsibilities under a contract . 
You have the same rights even if you lose your receipt . 
A receipt ,  however ,  is useful evidence of where and when you bought the goods . 
You may be able to claim compensation if you suffer loss because of faulty goods ,  for example ,  if a faulty iron ruins your clothes . 
If you received the faulty goods as a present ,  you may have to ask the person who bought them to complain for you ,  or to authorise you in writing to complain on your behalf . 
Only the buyer has the statutory rights described earlier . 
You are not legally obliged to return faulty goods to the seller at your own expense . 
If an item is bulky and would be difficult or expensive to return to the shop ,  ask the seller to collect it . 
But this does not apply where you complain about faults having 'accepted' the goods ,  or if you got the goods as present . 
You have fewer rights if you buy privately  ( that is ,  not from a trader )  or at an auction . 
See page 21
But if you are injured by defective goods ,  or they cause property damage costing you  £275 or more ,  you have certain rights regardless of how they were bought or whether they were a gift . In these circumstances ,  you can go straight to the manufacturer . 
If in doubt seek further advice . 
See pages 27 - 29 . 
You have no real grounds for complaint if you : 
you were told the fault ; 
examined the item when you bought it and should have seen the fault ; 
did the damage yourself ; 
made a mistake when purchasing the item . 
simply changed your mind about the item . 
Under these circumstances you are not entitled to anything ,  but many shops will help out of goodwill if you have proof of purchase . 
It is always worth asking . 
Buying a service
When you pay for a service  -  for example ,  from a dry cleaner ,  travel agent ,  car repairer ,  hairdresser or builder  -  you are entitled to certain standards . 
A service should be carried out :  with reasonable care and skill  -  a job should be done to a proper standard of workmanship . 
If you get a new extension to your house ,  the walls should not to crack and the roof must not leak ; 
within a reasonable time  -  even if you have not actually agreed a definite completion time with the supplier of the service ; 
a reasonable charge ,  if no price has been fixed in advance  -  if the price was fixed at the outset ,  or some other way of working out the charge was agreed ,  you cannot complain later that it is unreasonable . 
Always ask a trader how much a particular job will cost . 
The trader may only be able to make an informed guess at the cost and give you an estimate . 
If you agree a fixed cost it is usually called a quotation . 
A fixed price is binding whatever it is called . 
Where materials  ( such as bricks or wallpaper )  are used in provision of a service ,  or the service involves fitting goods  ( such as double - glazing or radiators )  ,  the materials and goods are covered by the same statutory rights as when you buy them directly . 
It could be worth checking ,  before you part with your money ,  whether the business or person providing the service is a member of a trade association . 
Membership does not guarantee satisfactory work ,  but if anything goes wrong ,  it could make it easier to get things put right . 
In some sectors trade associations are very active and have codes of practice . 
If a trader does adhere to a code of practice this may also benefit you if a problem arises . 
For more on the trade associations ,  see page 29 . 
Unfair contract terms
You are not bound by a standard term in a contract with trader if it unfairly weights the contract against you .  
This applies particularly to exclusion clauses  -  see page 52 . 
In contracts concluded since 1st July 1995 ,  other kinds of unfair 'small print' are also covered . 
Examples are penalty clauses  ( except in special circumstances )  terms which give the trader the right to vary the terms of the contract  ( for instance by increasing the price )  without you having a right to withdraw . 
Other examples are terms which :  stop you holding back any part of the price of goods or services if they turn out to be defective ;  prevent you from withdrawing from the contract while allowing the trader to do so ;  allow the trader to dishonour promises ,  for instance ,  those made by a salesman ;  stop you from being able to go to court over a dispute . 
The law applies to standard terms  -  those you have not negotiated yourself  -  in contracts for goods and services that you buy as a consumer . 
Terms that define what you get and how much you pay are not covered unless they are unclear . 
So the law cannot be used to argue that a contract does not represent fair value for money . 
It is up to the courts to decide if a term is unfair . 
If you think a term is unfair and you do not want to be bound by it ,  you may wish to seek advice from your local trading standards department or citizens advice bureau . 
Since 1 October 1999 trading standards departments ,  statutory regulators and the Consumers' Association have the power to consider if a term is unfair ,  and to take court action to stop its use in future contracts . 
Alternatively ,  you can write to the Director General of Fair Trading who will ,  similarly ,  consider whether a term is unfair . 
Neither the Director General nor the other organisations can get involved with individual cases . 
Further guidance ,  particularly on what terms are and are not considered unfair ,  can be found inn the regular Bulletins produced by the Office of Fair Trading  ( see address on the lat page )  . 
Making a complaint
When you complain ,  get your facts right and always keeping calm . 
You are more likely to get matters resolved if you do not lose your temper . 
Complaining about goods
Go back to the shop as soon as possible . 
If you have the receipt or other proof of purchase ,  take this with you . 
Explain the problem ,  say what you want done ,  and set a deadline . 
If you are not satisfied ,  put your complaint in writing . 
If the shop is part of a chain ,  write to the head office . 
Address your letter to the customer services manager or the chairman . 
If none of this works ,  get further advice ,  or consider whether you want to take the matter further by going to court . 
Complaining about services
Give the supplier a chance to put the matter right . 
If you are not satisfied ,  put your complaint in writing ,  saying what you have done ,  and set a deadline . 
If you are dealing with a larger business ,  address your letter to the customer services manager or the chairman . 
Consider withholding any further money until the problem has been sorted out ,  but check the small print of any contract you have signed . 
It may be desirable to seek further advice . 
Be especially careful about withholding payments if you have a credit agreement . 
You may wish to take advice on this . 
If you stop paying ,  it could affect your credit rating and so your chance of getting credit in the future . 
Continuing to pay will not undermine any claim you have against the lender for unsatisfactory service by a supplier . 
See pages 42 - 43 on extra protection when you pay by credit . 
Keep copies of letters along with a diary of events and a note of any telephone calls . 
Take photographs if relevant . 
Consider getting a written expert opinion to back up your complaint . 
The motoring organisations can ,  for example ,  provide reports on cars ,  but any reputable trader with relevant experience can count as an expert . 
This may cost money ,  but could be invaluable if you need to take legal action . 
If you did not fix a price and you think you have been overcharged when the bill arrives ,  get quotes from other traders for comparison when you complain . 
Some may charge to provide a quote . 
If you telephone : 
1 .  make a note beforehand of what you want to say ; 
2 .  have receipts and any other documents handy ; 
3 .  get the name of the person you want to speak to ; 
4 .  write down the date and time and what is said ; 
5 .  follow up your call with a letter ,  particularly if your complaint is a serious one . 
If you put it in writing : 
1 .  describe the item or service ; 
2 .  say where and when you bought the item or when the service was done ,  and how much it cost ; 
3 .  explain what is wrong ,  any action you have already taken ,  to whom you spoke and what happened ; 
4 .  say what you want done to remedy the situation  -  for example a refund or a repair ,  or the job done again without charge ; 
5 .  consider using special delivery so that you can easily check whether your letter has been delivered ; 
6 .  keep copies of any letters you send . 
Do not send original documents ,  such as receipts and guarantees  -  send copies instead . 
If you have a problem with goods or services bought on credit ,  you may have some additional protection . 
See pages 42 - 43 . 
Who can help ? 
If you cannot seem to get anywhere with your complaint or you need some extra advice ,  the following organisations may be able to help you . 
Trading standards  ( or consumer protection )  departments of local authorities
They can help in many situations relating to goods and services . 
They have powers to investigate complaints about false or misleading prices ,  inaccurate measures ,  consumer credit and  ( except in Northern Ireland )  the safety of consumer goods . 
They will often advise on everyday shopping problems . 
The address is in the telephone book under the local authority to which you pay your council tax . 
In Northern Ireland contact the trading standards branch of the Department of Economic Development . 
Some trading standards departments run consumer advice centres near main shopping areas . 
These offer advice and information to shoppers and traders ,  and deal with problems and complaints . 
Environmental health departments
These deal with health matters such as unfit food and drink ,  dirty shops and restaurants ,  and ,  in Northern Ireland ,  consumer safety matters . 
The address is in the telephone book under the local authority to which you pay your council tax . 
Citizens advice bureaux
They can help with a wide variety of problems ,  including shopping complaints . 
Look under citizens advice bureaux in the phone book . 
Trade associations
Traders often belong to trade associations . 
Some of these have codes of practice ,  and some have low cost conciliation or arbitration schemes .  A code of practice is not legally binding ,  but it can be a guide as to whether traders have broken rules by which they claim to abide . 
If they have ,  then an arbitrator should find in your favour . 
Not everyone who claims to be a member of a trade association is ,  so it is worth checking with the association . 
You can find the names and addresses of relevant trade associations from your local library or citizens advice bureau . 
Utilities
If you have a complaint about utilities  ( gas ,  water ,  electricity ,  or telephones )  ,  try first to sort out the problem with the company . 
Your bill will have a customer service telephone number that you can call . 
These four utilities all have a regulator who has the power to help resolve customers' problems . 
Contact numbers for these regulators can also be found on the back of your bill . 
There are ombudsmen for services such as banking ,  building societies ,  funerals and insurance . 
See pages 89 - 90 for addresses . 
Taking further action
If you are struggling to get a complaint sorted out ,  you can take further action . 
Just telling a trader who is being unhelpful or obstructive that you will go to court could be enough to get your complaint resolved . 
If you do have to take legal action ,  it can be much easier than it sounds and could be well worth the effort . 
Conciliation and arbitration
If the trader is a member of a trade association ,  there may be a conciliation or arbitration scheme you can use . 
Some associations have both . 
Do not be put off  -  such schemes are informal and generally inexpensive . 
But arbitration may not necessarily be cheaper than going to court under the small claims procedure . 
Check what fees you will be expected to pay if you lose the case . 
In conciliation ,  the idea is to enable the parties to settle their differences themselves . 
It does not result in a legally binding decision ,  and if you are not satisfied with the outcome ,  you can go on to arbitration ,  or to court . 
Arbitration is more like going to court ,  and is very straightforward . 
Both sides put their case and the arbitrator  ( arbiter in Scotland )  makes a decision . 
The arbitrator or arbiter will be independent and an expert in the particular field concerned ,  and may be a member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators . 
You have to choose between court and arbitration  -  you cannot do both . 
If you do not like an arbitrator's decision ,  you cannot then go to court  ( except in special circumstances )  . 
Under the Arbitration Act 1996 ,  a clause in which says that says that you have to go to arbitration cannot bind you provided the value of your dispute is not greater than the small claims limit . 
Arbitration is often done in writing . 
If you feel happier putting your case in person ,  you should consider using the small claims procedure in the County Court . 
Before going to arbitration or to court you may wish to seek an impartial opinion on the merits of your case . 
This is best obtained from a solicitor . 
Some solicitors work in law centres or advice agencies which offer free advice . 
Many solicitors in private practice offer a low - cost initial interview . 
Your local citizens advice bureau can help you find such a solicitor . 
Going to court
If you do not want to use a trade association scheme or no such scheme exists ,  you can go to court to sue for the return of your money or for compensation . 
This is easier than it sounds . 
It covers actions of up to  £5 , 000 in England and Wales ,   £1 , 000 in Northern Ireland and  £750 in Scotland . 
These 'small claims' cases are heard informally in private . 
Fees depend on the amount claimed . 
The small claims procedure is designed to be used without either side having to go to solicitors . 
If your opponent employs a solicitor ,  you cannot be charged the cost even if you lose your case . 
The only exception to this rule is if the court thinks you cause unnecessary costs ,  for instance ,  by making a wholly unreasonable claim or not attending the hearing . 
To start a small claims action ,  fill in a summons form with your name and address ,  that of your opponent  ( the 'defendant' or ,  in Scotland ,  'defender' )  and a brief statement of your case . 
You do not need to use technical language . 
Take or send the completed form to your local County Court or Sheriff Court . 
There is a court fee ,  but this is payable by your opponent if you win your case . 
Outside Scotland the fee is  £10 per  £100 claimed ,  with a minimum fee of   £20 .  Over   £1 , 000 to   £5 , 000 the fee is   £100 . 
In Scotland the fees are   £6 for claims up to   £50 and   £36 for claims over   £50 to   £750 .   ( These fees are subject to change .  ) 
The court will 'serve' the summons on the defendant and tell you what to do next . 
The necessary forms are available from the court office  ( look under 'Courts' in the telephone book for the address )  together with an information booklet . 
Some bookshops sell advice packs which includes the forms . 
You can get advice ,  leaflets explaining court procedure ,  and help filling in the court forms from your local citizens advice bureau or consumer advice centre . 
Some of these can provide free legal advice as well ,  and some one may even be able to go to court with you . 
Leaflets are also available from any County or Sheriff Court . 
Useful things to know
Misleading prices
It is a criminal offence for traders to make misleading price claims about goods or services . 
For example ,  'Was   £120 .  Now   £99 . 99' is misleading if the goods or services have never been provided at the higher price . 
It is also misleading if a trader fails to show 'hidden extras' ,  or to make it clear when a price is conditional on ,  say ,  another purchase . 
If you consider that you have been seriously misled about a price tell your local trading standards department and ask it to investigate . 
Untrue claims
It is a criminal offence for a trader to say or write something which is untrue about goods or  ( in some circumstances )  services . For example ,  if a car is said to have run only 20 , 000 miles ,  or the dry cleaner offers a 24 hour service ,  these statements must be true . If you feel you have been seriously misled ,  tell your local trading standards department . 
Estimates and quotations
When you need or want to have a service done ,  find out in advance what it will cost by getting an estimate or quotation . 
An estimate is generally a rough price while a quotation is normally a fixed price . 
Make sure you know which you are getting and ask for it to be put in writing . 
Check whether prices quoted include VAT . 
Buying on credit
Most people at some time will enter an agreement to purchase goods or services on credit ,  for example ,  by obtaining a personal loan through a bank or building society ,  hire purchase ,  or signing a credit agreement with a trader . 
Before entering a credit agreement you should consider the following points : 
work out what the total cost of the loan will be ; 
shop around for credit :  how much will a loan cost to repay each month and for how long ? 
Check also the annual percentage rate of charge  ( normally referred to as APR )  .  Generally speaking ,  the lower the APR the better the deal . 
Some traders offer interest - free credit  ( 0 %  APR )  but you will need to take care that you are not paying more in other ways ; 
 for example ,  the cash price may be higher than you would pay for the same goods elsewhere ; 
make sure you can afford to pay back the loan and the interest  -  and still have enough to cover all your other commitments . 
Check whether the loan has a variable rate of interest . 
If it has ,  your repayments can go up as well as down . 
If you are refused credit you have certain rights . 
You have the right to know the name and address of any credit reference agency that the lender contacted for details about you ;  the right to see any information held about you by that agency and the right to correct any inaccurate information . 
See the last page for details of the leaflet 'No Credit ? '
Some loans are only given if they are secured on your home . 
These are not available if you rent . 
A secured loan gives security to the lender ,  not to you . 
If you cannot keep up repayments the lender can sell your home to cover any loss . 
You might get a lower rate of interest with a secured loan but you could have a lot at stake . 
Right to cancel
If you change your mind and want to cancel a credit deal ,  you should be all right if ; 
the deal was made within the last few days ;  and
you talked to the lender or supplier in person  ( not on the telephone )  ;  and
when you signed the credit agreement you were not on the lender's or supplier's business premises  ( including an exhibition stand )  . 
You cannot normally use these rights to cancel purchases made with a credit card because you will have entered the agreement for the card some time ago . 
When you sign ,  you should be given a copy of the credit agreement ,  which sets out your cancellation rights . 
You should also receive ,  by post ,  a second copy or notice of your cancellation rights . 
If you can cancel ,  there should be a cancellation box on your copy of the agreement telling you what to do . 
Act quickly ,  as there are tight time limits . 
If you change your mind and the lender has not yet signed the agreement ,  you have the right to withdraw from a credit deal . 
Any goods you were buying through a credit agreement will have to go back . 
It is the shop's responsibility to collect them . 
Make sure you keep them in good condition until they are taken away . 
Credit brokers' fees
If you use a broker to get a loan ,  including a mortgage or a loan secured on your home ,  you will probably be charged a fee for the service . 
Make sure you know what this will be before you commit yourself . 
If ,  however ,  you do not enter into an agreement within six months of being introduced to a possible lender ,  the broker can only charge a fee or commission of   £5 and if you have already paid more ,  you can recover the excess . 
Similarly ,  other fees ,  such as a survey fee or insurance premium paid to the credit broker in connection with a loan that you do not eventually take up ,  are also refundable to you for credit agreements up to   £25 , 000 . 
Extra protection
Buying on credit gives you some extra rights ,  for example ,  if goods are faulty . 
If a trader has an arrangement with a finance or credit card company to allow you to pay by credit ,  you have extra protection . 
This applies if the goods cost more than   £100 . 
The credit company is equally liable for any claim you have against the trader . 
For example ,  if the goods are not delivered or are not what you ordered ,  or a holiday was wrongly described or you did not get what you paid for ,  you may be able to claim from the credit card or finance company . 
It is sensible to approach the trader first . 
You can ,  however ,  make a claim against the credit card issuer or finance company without doing this . 
You do not have these rights if you pay with a debit card  ( where the money is taken out of your account immediately )  or a charge card  ( where you must pay all you owe within a few weeks of receiving the account )  . 
Settling up early
You may find that part way through repaying your loan ,  you have enough money to pay off the whole amount owing in one go . 
If so ,  you could be entitled to a rebate of some of the charges you would have paid over the rest of the life of the loan . 
It depends on the type of agreement you have with the lender . 
It can sometimes cost more than you expect to settle early and in some cases you could still have to pay more than the original amount borrowed . 
Even so ,  settling early will cost less than carrying on with the repayments plus interest for the full length of the loan . 
Goods on order from a shop
If you order something not in stock or which requires delivery ,  such as a new suite of furniture ,  you must agree a date by which you must have it . 
It is a good idea to get this in writing as If the goods do not arrive on time you can refuse to accept them . 
If you do not need the goods by a specific time ,  you could ask for an estimated delivery date . 
But even if you do not agree a delivery date the seller must deliver in a reasonable time . 
If you think enough time has passed and do not want to wait any longer ,  tell the seller . 
Say that if an item has not come within a certain period  ( 14 days might be reasonable )  you want your money back . 
But if you agree at that point to wait longer  -  say an extra month  -  you cannot cancel in that time . 
When you order something ,  you and the seller should agree a fixed price . 
You may agree that if the cost of the goods goes up before delivery ,  you will pay the increase . 
In some instances the cost may not be known . 
Whatever the situation ,  make sure you know where you stand ,  preferably in writing . 
Mail order
You have the same statutory rights when you buy through mail order as when you buy from a shop ,  but there are other things you need to consider . 
Be particularly careful when giving your credit card details over the telephone that you are dealing with a reliable trader . 
Goods should be delivered within a reasonable time ,  usually 28 days or as specified in the advertisement . 
If the goods do not turn up you can cancel the order and ask for the money back . 
But if you agree to allow the seller extra time ,  you cannot cancel until that time is up . 
The law allows you a reasonable time to examine the goods . 
Do this as soon as you can and if they are faulty send them back immediately with a note explaining the problem . 
Keep a copy of your note . 
It is also advisable to get a proof of postage certificate from the Post Office . 
Most mail order catalogues have special arrangements for the return of goods . 
In other cases ,  the company should reimburse you for the cost of returning the goods . 
If you order through an advertisement read it thoroughly before placing an order and keep a copy . 
If you cannot keep a copy ,  note the advertiser's name and address ,  where and when the advertisement appeared ,  when you posted the order and any other details ,  such as charges for postage and packing . 
Try to avoid sending cash in the post .  Use cheques or postal orders
If you have to send cash ,  send it by registered post . 
If ordering from a book or record club ,  make sure you know what commitment you are making . 
Find out exactly what you have to buy and over how long in order to qualify for the introductory offer . 
Most newspapers and magazines have mail order protection schemes . 
These cover you if you send payment in advance for goods in response to an advertisement ,  and the firm goes out of business before you get the goods or a refund . 
You can write to the publication's advertising manager for help . 
Many mail order companies belong to trade associations which may offer ways of resolving problems . 
Look for a trade association logo in advertisements or catalogues . 
If you receive goods through the post that you have not ordered ,  you do not have to accept them . 
Write to the firm explaining that you do not want the goods . 
If they are not collected within 30 days ,  they become yours . 
If you do not write to the firm ,  put the goods to one side ,  unused ,  after six months they will become yours . 
A firm which demands payment for unsolicited goods could be breaking the law . 
If you come across this problem contact your local trading standards department . 
Direct mail
Many items bought by post are in response to direct marketing through catalogues ,  newspapers ,  magazines ,  inserts ,  postal advertising sent to you by name or hand delivered ,  or as a result of advertisements appearing on the television ,  radio or posters . 
Some people are happy to receive the offers for goods or services which come through the letterbox . 
Others find them a nuisance and would prefer not to receive them . 
If you do not want to receive this sort of mail ,  you can ask for your name to be deleted from direct mailing lists by writing to the Mailing Preference Service . 
It may take up to three months for the unwanted mail to stop arriving . 
See page 94 for the address . 
Telephone sales
Many companies now use the telephone to promote their goods and services . 
If you would like to reduce the number of sales calls you receive ,  contact your Telephone Preference Service . 
See page 94 . 
If you are registered with the Telephone Preference Service it is an offence for a company to continue to make unsolicited calls to you . 
If the calls keep coming you can take up the matter with the Office of Telecommunications  ( Oftel )  . 
Deposits
Think twice before you pay anything for goods and services before you receive them . 
If the firm goes out of business ,  you could get little or nothing back
The best course is not to pay in advance unless you have to . 
Sometimes it is probably unavoidable :  for example ,  with home improvements or made - to - measure goods . 
Try avoid paying a deposit  ( especially a large amount )  to a firm you know little or nothing about ,  particularly if the address consists simply of a box number and postcode . 
Try to find out something about the firm . 
If it is local ,  make sure it is listed in the telephone book . 
Ask the firm if it belongs to a trade association which runs a scheme to protect prepayments . 
If you do pay anything in advance make sure you get a receipt showing the name and address . 
If you pay a deposit and then cancel the order ,  the firm could claim to be entitled to keep your deposit . 
Check whether deposits are returnable ,  and ,  if so ,  in precisely what circumstances . 
If you use a credit card to pay a deposit for goods or services costing more than   £100 ,  you normally have more protection . 
See pages 42 - 43 . 
If you use certain other types of credit such as a linked credit agreement  ( where the trader from whom you are buying goods or services agrees to arrange your loan with a finance company )  ,  any deposit you have paid will be refundable if the credit agreement is not accepted by the finance company . 
Guarantees
Guarantees give you additional rights which may be a useful back up if you have to complain . 
Guarantees should be clear ,  unambiguous and available for you to see before you make a purchase . 
With some goods you may have manufacturers' guarantees . 
Make sure ,  where there is a registration card for return to the manufacturer ,  that the seller has filled in details of the purchase ;  the registration may not be valid without this having been done . 
For the guarantee to be effective you may need to ensure that you return the registration card to a stated address . 
Make sure you retain the documentation supplied with the goods which tells you how to make a claim under your guarantee . 
If you buy goods ,  such as a television ,  cooker or washing machine ,  you may be offered an extended guarantee or warranty  -  but you may have to pay extra for it . 
Think carefully about the value for money offered by an extended warranty ;  it is likely to be expensive compared with the amount you would ,  in normal circumstances ,  pay out in repair costs . 
If ,  however ,  you do decide you want to buy one ,  check the wording carefully . 
Make sure you know exactly what it does and does not cover before you sign . 
Prices vary considerably and it is well worth shopping around . 
Do not choose a firm just because it guarantees its services . 
A ten - year guarantee for a new extension to your house may be worthless if the firm goes out of business . 
Insurance - backed guarantee schemes ,  however ,  are available through some trade associations to cover building work . 
For long - term schemes make sure that the insurance covers the same period as the guarantee . 
Guarantees cannot legally be used to exclude or limit a shop's or dealer's liability for selling goods that are defective or do not correspond with their description . 
Exclusion clauses
Some traders may try to escape their responsibilities under contracts by using exclusion clauses ,  for instance saying they accept no liability for loss or damage . 
If an exclusion clause is unfair ,  it is legally void and cannot be used against you . 
Generally ,  only a court can decide if a contract term is unfair . 
But any exclusion of liability ,  whether in a contract term or on a notice ,  is always void if it is used for the purpose of evading liability for death or personal injury caused by negligence . 
Also ,  a trader selling goods cannot exclude liability for a breach of your statutory rights  ( see pages 9 - 10 )   -  for instance ,  by displaying a sign saying 'No refunds given' .  An attempt to do this is an offence . 
Similar statements about services  -  for example 'No responsibility for loss or damage to garments ,  however caused' on the back of a dry cleaning ticket  -  are not illegal . 
But they are not enforceable if a court finds them unfair . 
See pages 19 - 20 about unfair terms generally . 
Doorstep selling
When a doorstep seller calls on you do not sign or commit yourself to anything until you have had time to think matters over and compare prices with other companies . 
The seller may offer you a 'special' discount ,  'free' gift or other incentive if you agree to sign immediately . 
Do not feel pressured by this kind of offer . 
If you sign an agreement at home or agree to buy something costing more than   £35 from a seller who calls uninvited ,  you will have seven days in which to cancel the deal . 
If a seller contacts you ,  either by phone or by personal visit ,  without your prior consent ,  and then offers to visit ,  you will still have seven days to cancel any agreement you sign during the subsequent visit . 
 ( There are some exceptions to this :  for example ,  perishable goods and home extensions )  . 
If you have cancellation rights these must be given to you in writing . 
A seller who enters into a contract with you without advising you in writing of these rights will have committed an offence . 
If you have specifically asked a seller to visit you at home ,  you may not have the right to cancel
Be careful not to sign any document agreeing to a sales visit under the guise of taking part in a street survey ,  responding to a prize draw ,  an advertisement or other ruse . 
But if during a visit that takes place without your prior consent you sign such a document ,  you will still retain your right to cancel any agreement made during a subsequent visit ,  and the seller must inform you ,  in writing ,  of your cancellation rights . 
If you buy anything costing more than   £50 on credit you can cancel whether you invited the trader to call or not ,  provided you discuss the deal face to face with the seller and you sign away from the seller's business premises . 
See pages 38 - 43 . 
There is a code of practice covering doorstep and party plan selling . 
This offers the additional benefit to consumers of a 14 day cooling - off period on most goods sold by members of the Direct Selling Association . 
The address is on page 91 . 
If you want to cancel ,  act quickly . 
Send letters by recorded / special delivery so you have confirmation of the delivery . 
It may be a good idea to send your letter by fax ,  but make sure you follow it up by sending the original copy by post . 
Auctions
Take care if you buy at an auction . 
Auctioneers ,  unlike other sellers ,  can refuse to accept responsibility for the quality of the goods they auction . 
Look out for exclusion clauses and read notices and catalogues carefully . 
Note any conditions of sale ,  such as buyers' premium ,  terms and method of payment ,  deposits ,  and time limits for removal of goods . 
You cannot back out of the deal once the hammer has fallen . 
Secondhand goods
When you buy secondhand goods from a trader ,  you have the same rights as when buying new ones ,  but you must take into account that secondhand will not be of the same quality as brand new . 
You can ,  however ,  still claim your money back or the cost of repairs if goods are faulty ,  unless the faults are a matter of the wear and tear to be expected with secondhand goods ,  or were pointed out to you ,  or were obvious when you agreed to buy the goods . 
Private sales
If you buy goods privately  -  perhaps through an advertisement in the local paper  -  you have fewer rights than when you buy from a trader . 
Privately bought goods do not have to be free of faults ,  but they must be as described . 
For example ,  a leather coat should not be plastic ,  and full length curtains must not be half length . 
The rule is 'buyer beware' ,  so make sure you check that you are getting a good buy . 
If the seller says anything misleading about the condition of the goods ,  and you buy on the basis of what is said ,  then you will be able to seek a legal remedy if the goods turn out differently . 
But ,  in practice ,  this could be difficult to enforce . 
So it is a good idea to take someone with you when buying privately ,  to act as a witness . 
You should also ask for a written description of the goods . 
Beware of traders who pose as private sellers ,  perhaps at a car boot sale or through a small advertisement . 
This practice is illegal and takes advantage of the fact that you have fewer rights when you buy from a private seller . 
If the goods you buy are faulty and you suspect the seller was not trading privately  -  for example ,  you see lots of small advertisements with the same telephone number or the seller insists on meeting you at your home  -  contact your local trading standards department which should be able to tell you if the person is a trader and not a private seller . 
If the person is a trader ,  your statutory rights will then apply . 
The trading standards department can also take action to stop the trader posing as a private seller . 
Some problem sectors
Buying new and used cars
Decide on what you want and how much you can afford . 
Add on estimates of running costs ,  insurance ,  tax ,  MOT ,  petrol ,  repairs and servicing . 
If you are taking out a loan ,  add on the repayments . 
Look at car magazines to see what is available for the price you want to pay ,  and check the value of any car you want to trade in . 
Shop around and see what various dealers have on offer in your price range . 
Look for a reputable dealer  -  ask the advice of friends and look for a trade association sign . 
This should mean that the dealer follows the requirements of the Code of Practice for the Motor Industry ,  which could be helpful if you have a complaint . 
The price
Do not be afraid to haggle over the price . 
Some dealers offer fixed price 'no haggle' deals ,  but in general ,  most car prices are negotiable . 
It is up to you to negotiate the best deal . 
You may get a bigger discount if you pay by cash ,  but you may also be able to negotiate a discount if you arrange credit through the dealer . 
A dealer earns commission by arranging finance ,  so you may be able to bargain for part of the commission on the finance deal . 
Consider whether you are getting the best deal . 
If you are trading in your old car ,  make sure you know what it is worth . 
Ask for a cash price and weigh this up against the savings you might make by using your car as part - exchange for the one you want to buy . 
It's a good idea to avoid stating the price you want for your trade - in . 
Let the dealer offer you a price and then try to move it upwards . 
You must then decide whether you have a good deal . 
If you are not clear about any part of the deal ,  ask for an explanation . 
Get it in writing if you are still not happy . 
Once everything has been discussed ,  do not be afraid to say you want time to think about it or to walk away if the deal is not right for you . 
Buying a new car
It is always worth shopping around . 
Look at car magazines ,  visit showrooms and talk to dealers . 
Do not just go into one showroom and accept what is on offer . 
Discounts may be available ,  particularly on the less popular models ,  but it is up to you to haggle and get the price down as much as you can . 
If you are willing to buy 'off the shelf' ,  without added extras and special requirements ,  you are more likely to get a better discount . 
You need to make sure you know what items are offered as options and what are included as standard on the car . 
The final price will usually reflect the number of options you want on the car . 
There may be offers included with the car such as insurance or extended warranties . 
Some manufacturers are also willing to replace or offer refunds on new cars provided they are returned within a certain time of mileage limit . 
You will need to consider how much these offers are worth to you when you are deciding whether you are getting a good deal . 
Buying a used car from a dealer
When you go to a garage ,  take a friend for a second opinion ,  preferably one who knows about cars . 
Find out as much as you can about the car . 
Is the mileage guaranteed ? 
Some unscrupulous dealers alter the mileage reading so that it shows a lower figure than has actually been covered  ( for example ,  40 , 000 instead of 80 , 000 )  . 
This is called 'clocking' . 
Selling a car with a false mileage is illegal . 
Your dealer may have access to a database of vehicle mileages . 
Ask if any check has been made . 
You could ask to see the vehicle registration document and contact the last owner to check the mileage . 
The vehicle registration document ,  however ,  shows the 'keeper' and not the owner of the car ;  while this will be the same person in most cases ,  you may find the keeper was a company rather than a person . 
If the car is more than three years old ,  it must have an MOT certificate and this must show the mileage at the time of the last test . 
You could ask to see this too . 
For a fee ,  you could also check with a company which provides information on mileage  ( as well as outstanding credit agreements ,  accident - damaged and stolen vehicles )  . 
Check motoring magazines for addresses . 
Ask the dealer about the history of the car . 
A good garage will check that its cars are not stolen property ,  insurance company write - offs that have been repaired ,  or subject to outstanding hire purchase agreements . 
In fact ,  a reputable dealer should be pleased to confirm the car's history to a potential buyer . 
Beware a dealer who is cagey about a car's history . 
Inspect a car thoroughly in daylight and take it for a test drive . 
Car magazines often provide a range of advice on what to look and listen for when on a test drive . 
Is the dealer content to have the car tested by the AA or RAC before you buy ? 
If not ,  walk away . 
If the car has already been inspected ,  ask to see the report . 
If you decide you want the car ,  make sure any deposit you pay is subject to survey ,  so that it is returnable in case any AA / RAC report says you should not buy . 
If there is a warranty ,  what does it include  ( and exclude )  ,  and will you have to pay extra for it ? 
Buying a used car privately
If you buy privately ,  you should expect to pay less as the seller does not have the expenses of a dealer . 
But you have fewer rights than when you buy from a trader ,  so take extra care . 
Also ,  some dealers try to cheat by pretending to be private sellers . 
See pages 57 - 59 on private sales . 
Does the seller really own the car ?  
It may still be subject to an unsettled hire purchase agreement or have been stolen . 
Check the name on the vehicle registration document ;  although this will only show the name of the keeper and not the owner of the car ,  it is still useful to check . 
Check the MOT certificate if the car is more than three years old . 
Ask for proof of identity . 
Ask for proof of identity . Inspect the car at the seller's home in daylight and satisfy yourself that the seller lives there . 
Ask for a test drive ,  but be very careful to ensure that you are covered by your own insurance to drive another person's car . 
Be wary of relying on the seller's assurance that the car is insured for you to drive . 
Have the car checked thoroughly by someone who knows what they are doing  -  for example ,  the AA or RAC . 
You cannot complain later if there is a fault you did not see or identify ,  unless there was misrepresentation . 
If the car is still under an extended warranty from the manufacturer ,  check that the owner has had the car regularly serviced according to the warranty conditions . 
There will be a service record book in which servicing details should have been recorded . 
An extended warranty is unlikely to be valid if servicing has not been carried out properly . 
Car auctions
If you are looking for a bargain at an auction ,  make sure you know what you are doing . 
Go as a spectator first and see what happens . 
If possible ,  take an expert with you if you do not know much about cars . 
Study the auctioneer's conditions of business . 
You buy as seen and therefore have fewer rights of redress other than as set out in the conditions of sale . 
You have little opportunity to check the past history and mechanical condition of the car . 
Be extra careful if you are buying from a temporary auction centre . 
Would you be able to contact the auctioneer after the sale ? 
Car repair and servicing
You will probably have to rely on a garage to keep your car in good repair and properly serviced . 
With a little forethought ,  you can avoid some of the possible pitfalls . 
It is best to do it in writing . 
If the car is in for a regular service ,  make sure you know what this include . 
Tell the garage if you want the manufacturer's recommended service carried out ,  and agree between you whether any items can be left out . 
Bear in mind that if you do have items left out it may invalidate any warranty . 
Get a quotation  ( a firm price )  ,  or at least an estimate  ( an informed guess )  ,  preferably in writing ,  for the work you want done . 
Check whether the costs for labour ,  parts and VAT are all included . 
Ask if workmanship and parts are guaranteed . 
Find out how long the job will take or agree on a set time for collection ,  and check how the garage will want you to pay the bill . 
Leave a telephone number and tell the garage to ask for your permission to carry on if the cost is likely to exceed the estimated cost ,  or if a further problem is identified . 
Once the job is finished ,  get a detailed invoice listing all work carried out ,  showing parts and labour costs . 
If you are faced with a sky - high bill or think the garage has done a bad job ,  talk to the manager straight away . 
If the problem cannot be resolved ,  you will probably still have to pay the disputed bill to get your car back
Give the garage a letter ,  detailing your complaint ,  saying that you are dissatisfied and that payment is made 'without prejudice' . 
This will ensure that the trader cannot say in court that you accepted the repair was satisfactory because you paid the bill . 
See page  9 - 12 for how to complain . 
Furniture and furnishings
If you are buying furniture ,  shop around and compare goods and prices to get the best deal . 
Get information from leaflets ,  catalogues and labels . 
Check that upholstered furniture carries a label stating that it meets fire safety requirements . 
Do not be afraid to test the goods . 
If you are buying a bed ,  lie on it for a time to see that it is comfortable . 
If you are getting carpet fitted ,  check that the colour and design correspond with the sample you chose and that ,  when laid ,  the roll of carpet delivered is not faded or flawed . 
Do not pay the whole cost until all the work has been done to your satisfaction . 
Furniture often has to be ordered and you may have to pay a deposit . 
Check that you know exactly how much you will have to pay for the goods when they arrive . 
For more on deposits ,  see pages 49 - 50 ,  and for advice on taking delivery of goods on order ,  see pages 43 - 44 . 
Some manufacturers and retailers in the furniture and carpet industries subscribe to the Qualitas Code of Practice . 
Traders who endorse should display a logo with the word 'Qualitas' on it .  Similarly ,  furniture produced by the manufacturers who subscribe to the code should be labelled with the Qualitas logo . 
All Qualitas members are pledged to repair ,  replace or make a refund to consumers for faulty or damaged goods ,  and to deal with complaints speedily and sympathetically . 
If you have a complaint
Direct your complaint to the trader who sold you the goods . 
Follow the suggested procedure for complaints on page 22 . 
If you have made every effort to resolve the matter with the trader and it is more than three months since you first made your complaint ,  you can refer the matter to the Qualitas national conciliation service ,  if the trader is a member of the association . 
The conciliation service is independent . 
The conciliator ,  whose decisions are binding on the retailer ,  will try to settle the matter to everyone's satisfaction . 
If you are not happy with the decision ,  you can take court action ,  using the conciliator's findings if you wish . 
Qualitas cannot investigate a complaint until three months have elapsed since you first made your complaint and only if you have exhausted the trader's own complaints procedure . 
If you cannot resolve the problem with the trader and less than three months has passed ,  seek help from your local trading standards department ,  citizens advice bureau or consumer advice centre . 
To help to resolve complaints ,  Qualitas also offers an independent furnishings and floor coverings inspection service ,  which is available whether or not the trader or manufacturer is a member . 
Electrical goods
Electrical manufacturers are constantly developing their products as technology advances . 
But are you sure you are going to need all those extra features ? 
Decide exactly what you want . 
Look at publications like 'Which ? '  ( the magazine of the Consumers' Association )  and specialist magazines . 
Then shop around ,  comparing prices and after - sales service . 
Check whether there are any special installation requirements and the servicing and repair arrangements . 
Some shops are happy to deliver and install goods for no extra charge . 
Familiarise yourself with the instructions and controls . 
Some manufacturers provide telephone help lines to help sort out problems . 
Many home service calls made by engineers to look at new electrical products result from incorrect use of the item . 
Find out if there is a guarantee ,  what it covers ,  what is excluded and how long it is for . 
Often you will be asked if you want to buy an extended warranty . 
If you do ,  make sure you know what it costs ,  what it covers ,  and whether you think the peace of mind provided is worth the extra money . 
Check the procedures for making a claim . 
Will the warranty pay for repairs up front or will you have to pay first ,  and then claim the money back afterwards ? 
Keep details of any guarantee or warranty with your original receipt and any service or repair documents ;  they may be needed later . 
It is a good idea to make a note of serial numbers for future reference . 
Dealing with faults and repairs
If a new electrical appliance does not work properly or becomes faulty ,  first of all check that you have followed the instructions properly and that it is correctly installed and wired . 
Telephone the shop if you are unsure . 
If it still does not work ,  complain . 
If an appliance breaks down later owing to manufacturing faults you may still be able to claim compensation from the seller ,  even if the appliance is covered by a manufacturer's guarantee . 
The repairer may have to examine the item to locate the fault and is entitled to charge a fee for doing this ,  so long as you know in advance .  Ask if this will be taken off the final bill . 
You are entitled to a repair in a reasonable time . 
If you feel it is taking too long ,  tell the repairer  -  preferably in writing  -  setting out a reasonable deadline . 
If the repairer agrees with this and the deadline is not met ,  you may be entitled to claim compensation . 
If you are unhappy with the repair work ,  make a complaint . 
Advice on complaining about goods or services is given on pages 22 - 35 . 
Trade associations
Members of RETRA  ( Radio ,  Electrical and Television Retailers' Association )  ,  AMDEA  ( Association of Manufacturers of Domestic Electrical Appliances )  and DASA  ( Domestic Appliance Service Association )  operate to codes of practice for servicing and repairs . 
They should offer a service call within three working days and tell you of any minimum call - out charge . 
If goods have to be taken away for repair for more than 15 working days ,  RETRA members will either lend you a similar item or ,  if this is not practical ,  extend the original term of your guarantee by the time you are without use of the appliance . 
RETRA ,  AMDEA and DASA have special procedures for dealing with complaints . 
Addresses are on page 91 . 
Home maintenance and improvements
There are always repair maintenance and improvement jobs to be done in the home . 
If you are not a DIY expert you will have to find a reliable contractor
A few sensible precautions taken at the outset could mean the difference between money well spent or money wasted . 
Choosing a contractor
Choose your contractor with care . 
Ask friends and neighbours whom they recommend and draw up a list setting out exactly what you want done . 
Get quotations from three or four contractors and consider them carefully . 
Make sure they cover everything that you require . 
Do not choose a contractor just because a generous guarantee is offered  -  it is no good having a ten year guarantee if the firm has gone out of business . 
A guarantee is an addition to your statutory rights  -  it cannot replace or remove these rights . 
See pages 50 - 52 for more on guarantees . 
Do not agree to have work done simply because someone happens to knock on your door with an offer . 
If you are interested ,  ask for more information and give yourself time to get estimates from other traders to compare . 
Get a written agreement or contract covering all the important points :  the work to be done ,  the price ,  how long the job will take . 
Read it carefully . 
If it is important to you that the work is completed by a certain date ,  make sure that a finishing date is stated in the contract ,  and that there are specific conditions to cover compensation for any delay . 
For larger jobs costing more than a few thousand pounds ,  you are probably better off using a standard industry contract such as the JCT Minor Works Contract . 
This will ,  among other things ,  specify the intervals at which payments will be made . 
One copy goes to the contractor and you should keep the other . 
If it is a large job you might be asked for stage payments for work done . 
Stage payments are a good way of ensuring the steady progress of the work . 
It is usually a good idea to retain a sum for an agreed period after the job has been completed .  This is the best way to ensure that the contractor will put right any faults . 
The terms should be set out in a written contract ,  however . 
If things go wrong
Follow the suggested procedure on pages 23 - 24 for complaining about a service . 
Find out if the contractor belongs to a trade association and whether it offers any extra consumer protection  ( for example ,  conciliation or arbitration services )  in addition to your statutory rights . 
You can find the names and addresses of relevant trade associations from your local library or citizens advice bureau . 
Contractors who are members of trade associations will usually publicise this and will be able to supply the addresses and telephone numbers . 
If you are not satisfied that your complaint has been dealt with properly by the contractor or the trade association ,  you may wish to consider going to arbitration or to court . 
See pages 30 - 35 for details . 
A consumer adviser ,  solicitor or other expert can provide independent advice on the merits of your case . 
Holidays
Holidays can be expensive ,  so it is important to think about what you want before you book . 
A few simple precautions will help to ensure that you are not disappointed . 
Choosing and paying for your holidays
Choose travel agents and tour operators which belong to a trade organisation that has a code of practice . 
Look for ABTA  ( Association of British Travel Agents )  or AITO  ( Association of Independent Tour Operators )  on brochures or invoices . 
All package travel tour operators must be bonded or protect the pre - payments they hold by other specific means . 
This means that if the tour operator ceases trading before you travel you should get your money back . 
If you are already abroad ,  you should be able to carry on with your holiday and get home without any extra payments ,  although if your tour operator is not a member of ABTA or AITO and does not hold an ATOL  ( Air Travel Organiser's Licence )  you may have to pay some expenses up front ,  and get your money back after you return . 
Package holidays which include flights must be protected by an ATOL granted by the Civil Aviation Authority  ( CAA )  to ensure it is fit to hold a licence and is financially sound . 
This does not mean that the company cannot fail ,  but it is less likely to . 
You should look for the ATOL number in brochures and on invoices . 
There are advantages in paying for your holiday by credit card . 
If it turns out to be a disappointment because it was wrongly described or you did not get what you paid for ,  you may be able to claim against the credit card company as well as the travel agent or tour operator . 
This is the case even if the travel firm goes out of business before your holiday begins or while you are away . 
See pages 42 - 43
It is a wise precaution ,  although not a legal requirement ,  to take out travel insurance . 
Sometimes a holiday operator has a policy of insisting that customers take out its own travel insurance . 
If taking out travel insurance is a condition of taking the holiday you have no right to opt out of that requirement . 
Making your own insurance arrangements is usually cheaper than buying standard policies offered by the operator . 
Check the details of any travel insurance policy very carefully . 
They should cover at least the following : 
cancellation of ,  or cutting short your holiday ; 
illness or injury while you are away ; 
loss or theft of your belongings ; 
delayed or missed departures ; 
liability for accidents to others . 
Make sure you know what is excluded and what procedure you would need to follow in the event of having to make a claim  ( for example ,  reporting a theft to the local police )  . 
Holiday problems
If you have a problem whilst you are on a package holiday ,  bring it immediately to the attention of the tour operator's representative at the resort . 
If necessary ask for a complaint form ,  or put your complaint in writing in a separate letter . 
If things are not put right straight away ,  collect evidence about the problems such as photographs ,  statements from other holiday makers . 
Once you get home ,  check what your holiday brochure said . 
It is an offence for operators to misdescribe what they offer you . 
The contact the tour operator and send them copies of your evidence  ( always keep the originals )  . 
Explain what went wrong and tell them how much compensation you want . 
Do not give in if you are offered much less than you have asked for :  keep pressing for what you think is fair . 
Contact ABTA or AITO if the tour operator is a member . 
ABTA provides an independent arbitration service and AITO an independent dispute settlement service which you can use if you wish . 
Alternatively  ( or if the tour operator is not a member of ABTA or AITO )  you can take your case to the County Court  ( or Sheriff Court in Scotland )  under the small claims procedure . 
See pages 30 - 35 for more on arbitration and going to court ,  and where to get help . 
Timeshare
Be careful  -  some companies use dubious tactics to sell timeshare . 
For example ,  you may be offered a prize or a gift as an inducement to attend a presentation where you will be under a lot of pressure to sign on the spot . 
Unless you are seriously considering buying from the company concerned ,  do not go . 
If you sign a timeshare contract in the United Kingdom ,  you have a cooling - off period of 14 days in which you can cancel the contract  ( and any related credit agreement )  and get your money back . 
If you sign a timeshare contract abroad ,  in many countries the cooling - off period is 10 days but you do not have to pay any deposit . 
If you are uncertain about your position you should not sign but wait until you get home and seek legal advice . 
If you buy timeshare and you find you have not got what you paid for ,  you may still be able to get your money back if you placed the deposit using a credit card . 
See pages 42 - 43 . 
This does not apply if you just change your mind . 
If something goes wrong ,  get advice straight away . 
Contact a solicitor or seek advice from a body such as the Timeshare Council ,  the trade association in the United Kingdom . 
See page 93 for the address . 
DO SOMETHING YOU LOVE FOR A LIVING
WORKING IN EARLY YEARS ,  CHILDCARE AND PLAYWORK
WHY WORK WITH CHILDREN ?  5
COULD IT BE ME ?  6
WHAT'S IN IT FOR ME ?  9
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS ?  10
NURSERIES 13
PRE - SCHOOLS AND PLAYGROUPS 14
CHILDMINDING 17
PLAYWORK :  OUT - OF - SCHOOL CLUBS AND HOLIDAY PLAY SCHEMES 18
WHAT EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS DO I NEED ?  20
WHAT WILL I EARN ?  20
STILL NOT SURE ?  26
WHERE NEXT ?  28
 " I ALSO ENJOY WORKING WITH THE CHILDREN'S PARENTS WHO OFTEN COME TO ME FOR ADVICE  -  IT'S GOOD TO KNOW YOU CAN HELP .  " 
WHY WORK WITH CHILDREN ? 
Quality education ,  care and play for children from birth to age 14 makes a real difference to their lives ,  laying the foundation for all - round development in their crucial formative years and preparing them for adulthood . 
Thousands of children are already benefiting from the input of people like you  -  people who care about children and their future ,  who have the commitment ,  energy and enthusiasm to be positive role models ,  and who value the opportunity for a worthwhile career . 
You'd be playing a key role in the lives of the children you care for . 
Your involvement could help children develop social learning skills that would stand them in good stead throughout their lives . 
So why work with children ?   Because children deserve a good start . 
After all ,  they're our future . 
COULD IT BE ME ? 
Thousands of people are still needed nationwide to give children the best start . 
In fact ,  over the next three years ,  around 150 , 000 new workers are needed to meet demand . 
If children are to continue getting the very best quality early education ,  care and play ,  we need to draw on a wider pool of talent for these crucial jobs . 
If you have the right blend of skills and personal qualities ,  you could be one of them . 
All kinds of people work in Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork . 
Children need a variety of positive role models and good influences . 
School leavers and students ,  adults of all ages ,  disabled people ,  people from ethnic minorities ,  men and women  -  with or without previous experience  -  all play an important part . 
What they have in common is their patience ,  enthusiasm ,  empathy ,  a sense of responsibility and a sense of fun ! 
These dedicated people also need to understand that theirs is a job to be taken seriously . 
If you care about children ,  you like being with them ,  encouraging and learning with them ,  listening to them ,  stimulating their imagination and watching them grow ,  this could be your future . 
There's never been a better time to  work on Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork . 
NB Please note that for all Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork jobs you will need to undergo a police check . 
For further details of this and all other requirements contact the Office for Standards in Education  ( Ofsted )  ,  see page 30 for telephone number and website . 
 " CHILDCARE'S A CAREER THAT HAS A CRUCIAL ROLE TO PLAY IN A CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT .  IT'S LIKE HAVING A SECOND FAMILY  -  YOU HAVE A TREMENDOUS RESPONSIBILITY BUT YOU KNOW YOU CAN REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE TO THE CHILDREN .  " 
 " OUR NURSERY IS A VERY HOMELY PLACE ,  INFORMAL AND FRIENDLY ,  WHERE CHILDREN CAN BE HAPPY AND LEARN THROUGH PLAY .  " 
WHAT'S IN IT FOR ME ? 
You will have a respected and demanding career ,  and interesting and challenging role with the potential to change lives  -  for the better . 
And that's some responsibility . 
In return ,  the rewards are great . 
You'll watch children grow and gain in confidence as they learn and play . 
You'll share in their achievements and be there for them when they need you . 
You'll give them security and feel in return the trust they invest in you . 
Working with children often involves working with parents too ,  helping them with their child's development and enabling them to find a better balance in their lives . 
It often involves working as part of a team ,  training and learning day by day . 
You'll not only feel the difference in terms of confidence and job satisfaction  -  you'll also have the support and camaraderie that teamwork can bring . 
And you'll have the opportunity to work towards qualifications that have real currency in the jobs market ,  recognising your role in a child's development and enabling you to develop your own personal career  -  right up to manager level ,  if that's what you'd like . 
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS ? 
There is variety as well as job satisfaction . 
For example you could work in a nursery ,  pre - school or playgroup . 
You could use your skills alongside a teacher in a nursery school or in a nursery class or reception class ,  enjoying involvement with children up to the age of five . 
You could set up as a childminder ,  based in your own home ,  or you could get involved in one of the many Playwork schemes ,  the out - of - school clubs and holiday play schemes that exist around the country ,  working with children up to the age of 14 years . 
You could also choose to specialise in working with children with special educational needs . 
What's more ,  there are opportunities for you to move from one Childcare setting to another  -  and to gain promotion and greater responsibility with experience . 
One thing is certain  -  you'll never be bored . 
 " I KNOW I'M DOING A REALLY IMPORTANT JOB ,  LOOKING AFTER THE MOST PRECIOUS THING IN A PARENT'S LIFE .  " 
 " IT'S BRILLIANT TO WATCH AND ENCOURAGE AS CHILDREN DEVELOP AND GROW IN CONFIDENCE IN THE NURSERY ,  SO THEY'RE FAMILIAR WITH IT ALL BY THE TIME THEY START SCHOOL .  " 
NURSERIES
There are all kinds of nurseries  -  some run by voluntary or community groups ,  some by employers or local authorities . 
Others are privately run . 
There are also nursery classes attached to some primary schools . 
They usually provide full day care ,  education and play for children up to the age of five and are generally open from 8am to 6pm . 
Some also offer extended care for school - age children ,  opening at 7am in the morning until 7pm in the evening . 
The majority of nurseries are open weekdays all year round  ( except for Bank Holidays )   -  but some are open term - time only . 
So there are likely to be opportunities for you to work part - time or  - term - time to fit in with your other commitments . 
You'd be :  planning and organising stimulating educational and fun activities and taking care of children's personal needs  -  for food ,  washing and sleep ,  for instance . 
For information on training ,  see 'What experience and qualifications do I need ? ' on page 20 . 
PRE - SCHOOLS AND PLAYGROUPS
Pre - schools and Playgroups provide Childcare ,  play and Early Years education usually for children aged between two and five . 
While many operate on a part - time 'sessional' basis ,  an increasing number are offering extended and full day care and holiday schemes . 
Both full and part - time work may be available ,  as is the possibility of term - time only work . 
You'd be :  planning and providing a range of play opportunities for the children ,  together with Early Years education . 
For information on training ,  see 'What experience and qualifications do I need ? ' on page 20 . 
 " IF YOU CAN GIVE CHILDREN EMOTIONAL SECURITY ,  THEY WILL LEARN BETTER LATER ON  -  AND YOU WILL HAVE MADE AN IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTION TO THEIR LIVES .  " 
 " BEING A CHILDMINDER IS A MARVELLOUS OPPORTUNITY TO GET THE BALANCE RIGHT FOR CHILDREN ,  BUILDING THEIR SELF - ESTEEM . 
IT'S LIKE HAVING A SECOND FAMILY .  " 
CHILDMINDING
Childminding is currently the most popular kind of day care chosen by parents ,  offering Childcare for babies and children of all ages ,  usually with hours that allow for greater flexibility . 
You'd be self - employed ,  childminding in your own home ,  so the hours you'd work and the number and ages of the children you'd care for would ,  to an extent ,  be up to you . 
The maximum number you could take at any time would ,  however ,  be set by Ofsted  ( the Office for Standards in Education )  . 
You may be looking after a child from baby to teenager ,  able to offer them emotional support and build self - esteem as they grow . 
Childminders who join a Network can also provide Early Education  -  which is a great opportunity for career development and progression . 
You'd be :  caring for individual babies and children according to their needs  -  taking them to toddler group or baby gym ,  for instance ,  if they're very young ,  combined with play at home ,  with plenty of opportunity for one - to - one activity and individual attention . 
If you look after children aged under eight for more than two hours a day  -  for payment or reward  -  you must be registered by Ofsted . 
A Childminder Start - up Grant will help with your set - up costs . 
PLAYWORK :  OUT - OF - SCHOOL CLUBS AND HOLIDAY PLAY SCHEMES
Out - of - school clubs  ( sometimes called Kids' Clubs )  open before and after school and all day long during holidays ,  giving 4 to 14 - year - olds a safe and enjoyable place to play ,  meet  -  and sometimes catch up on homework . 
Holiday play schemes are often run by voluntary organisations ,  local authorities or charities  -  in local parks ,  community centres ,  leisure centres or schools . 
They are not only a great place for youngsters to meet their friends  -  they also offer a wide range of activities to keep them busy ,  such as sports or drama ,  arts and crafts or music . 
You'd be :  organising and running or helping with anything from a breakfast club before school to a football team or holiday play scheme . 
Depending ,  of course ,  on your own interests . 
For information on training ,  see 'what experience and qualifications do I need ? ' on page 20 . 
 " CHILDCARE IS A WELL - RESPECTED AND VALUED CAREER WITH DEDICATED PEOPLE DOING AN EXPERT JOB .  " 
WHAT EXPERIENCE ADN QUALIFICATIONS DO I NEED ? 
High - quality training for Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork workers is absolutely crucial  -  children and their families need well - qualified adults who are sensitive to their needs and have the expertise and experience to support them . 
Experience of looking after young children  -  in your own family of friends' family ,  for instance  -  is always useful in Childcare ,  but recognised training equips you with the skills you need to do your job well and the knowledge to understand and appreciate a child's development . 
What's more ,  the confidence ,  experience and qualifications gained will stand you in good stead at the start of a new career  -  and open doors for a bright future working with children anywhere in England . 
There's a range of relevant qualifications at local colleges ,  full - time ,  part - time or day release from your work . 
Much of the training can take place on the job ,  where you can gain qualifications such as National Vocational Qualification  ( NVQs )  at your own pace . 
Financial help for training may be available from College Access funds  -  contact your local college or your Early Years Development and Childcare Partnership for details . 
NB Many employers are looking for unqualified as well as qualified staff  ( at least 50 %  of staff working with children under the age of eight must be qualified at Level 2 or above  -  except for childminders ,  who are self - employed . 
FOR PRE - SCHOOL GROUPS AND PLAYGROUPS As a Trainee you'd usually start off by working towards becoming an assistant in a supervised role ,  in a pre - school or playgroup setting . 
The main qualification for this is : 
The Certificate in Pre - school Practice  ( a vocational qualification at Level 2 )  . 
You could then progress to a managerial or supervisory position on the job . 
The main qualification for this is : 
The Diploma in Pre - School Practice  ( a vocational qualification at Level 3 awarded by CACHE )  . 
This is available via distance learning through the National Extension College . 
FOR CHILDMINDING All new childminders will need to complete a short pre - registration course within the first six months . 
Many are also working towards qualifications to help them provide a better service to children and families ,  and to assist their career development . 
The most usual qualification taken by childminders  ( encompassing the pre - registration course )  is : 
Certificate in Childminding Practice  ( a vocational qualification at Level 3 ,  run by CACHE ,  the Council for Awards in Children's Care and Education ,  in association with the National Childminding Association )  . 
NB Since childminders are self - employed ,  the fees you charge are up to you . 
The Children's Information Service can give you information on what other childminders are charging in your area . 
You'll find them in your telephone directory . 
FOR PLAYWORK There are a number of short introductory courses available that will give you the background and basic skills needed to work in an out - of - school setting . 
One example that you may like to consider is : 
Take 5 for Play  -  a 20 - hour ,  entry - level course . 
As a Trainee you would usually begin by working towards a Level 2 qualification to become an Assistant Playworker . 
You may then choose to progress towards a supervisory role by gaining a Level 3 qualification . 
The main qualification for each of these is the : 
NVQ  ( National Vocational Qualification )  Levels 2 and 3 in Playwork . 
Higher level qualification in Playwork include : 
The NVQ Level 4 in Early Years Care and Education or
The Management Charter Initiative NVQ Levels 4 and 5 . This can also be used for management of other Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork settings . 
 " THE GREATEST REWARD FOR ME IS REFLECTED IN WHAT THE CHILDREN GET OUT OF IT .  IT'S REALLY SPECIAL TO BE ABLE TO HELP THEM LEARN NEW SKILLS .  " 
WHAT WILL I EARN ? 
Pay levels are set locally ,  rather than nationally ,  and are dependent upon the setting in which you work and the number of hours you work . 
But the better qualified you are ,  the more experience you get and the higher your level of responsibility  -  then the higher your salary is likely to be . 
Contact your local Early Years Development and Childcare Partnership  -  or visit the Jobcentre  -  to find out more about opportunities and rates of pay in your area . 
STILL NOT SURE ? 
If you're still not sure about going into Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork ,  you may be able to take an orientation or taster session  -  which will give you an idea of what it's all about . 
'Making Choices' ,  for example ,  is a free ,  fifteen - hour programme run over a series of sessions .  It covers all aspects of working with children and young people  -  you'll : 
meet young people doing the work  -  and employers
look at different jobs and what they entail
take a look at the training and qualifications you'll need
touch on health and safety and relevant legislation . 
There are no tests  -  and no right or wrong answers  -  but you will receive a certificate for attending the course . 
Ask your local Early Years Development and Childcare Partnership for more information . 
Or contact the Early Years National Training Organisation . 
Details are in 'Where next ? ' on page 29 . 
Your local Early Years Development and Childcare Partnership may also offer similar courses that will help you decide whether the work is really for you . 
Contact them for information . 
You'll find their details on the enclosed card . 
 " I GET A REAL BUZZ FROM HELPING CHILDREN DEVELOP THEIR FULL POTENTIAL . 
IT'S HARD WORK BUT IT'S GREAT FUN AND VERY SATISFYING .  " 
WHERE NEXT ? 
LOCAL EARLY YEARS AND DEVELOPMENT AND CHILDCARE PARTNERSHIPS are an important resource in helping you to progress towards working with children and will also help you with local contacts for where to find work . 
You will find details on the enclosed card . 
Your local Children's Information Service will have information about local support in becoming a childminder . 
You'll find them in your telephone directory . 
CAREERS SERVICE .  Your local careers service will hold information on careers service will hold information on careers in Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork and may have details of job or training opportunities in your locality . 
They can also offer guidance if you need it to help you choose which type of opportunity would be right for you . 
You can find them listed in the phone book under Careers ,  or on the Careers Services National Association website :  www . careers - uk . com . 
In phases from April 2001 ,  careers services in England are becoming part of a wider new support service for teenagers called the 'Connexions Service' . 
LEARNDIRECT can give you general information on Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork courses . 
Ring their free helpline on 0800 100 900 .   THE PRE - SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE runs its own courses and publishes information on pre - school work and training . 
Ring them on 020 7833 0991 .   Or look at their website :  www . pre - school . org . uk
THE NATIONAL CHILDMINDING ASSOCATION  -  information about training and other aspects of childminding . 
Contact them at 8 Masons Hill ,  Bromley ,  Kent BR2 9EY .   Tel :  020 8464 6164 .   Website :  www . ncma . org . uk
NATIONAL DAY NURSERIES ASSOCIATION promotes quality Childcare and education for all children in the Early Years . 
Contact them at 16 New North Parade ,  Huddersfield ,  West Yorkshire HD1 5JP .   Tel :  01484 541641 .   Website :  www . ndna . org . uk e - mail :  info @ ndna . org . uk
KIDS' CLUBS NETWORK  -  for information about jobs and training in out - of - school Childcare ,  contact them at Bellerive House ,  3 Muirfield Crescent ,  London E14 9SZ .   Tel :  020 7512 2100 .   Website :  www . kidsclub . co . uk
DAYCARE TRUST campaigns for quality ,  affordable Childcare and provides information and advice on Childcare issues . 
Contact them at 21 St George's Road ,  London SE1 6ES .   Tel :  020 7840 3350 .   Website :  www . daycaretrust . org . uk
THE EARLY YEARS NATIONAL TRAINING ORGANISATION will send you information on qualification for working in different Childcare settings . 
Contact them at Pilgrims Lodge ,  Holywell Hill ,  St Albans ,  Herts AL1 1ER .   Tel :  01727738300 .   Website :  www . early - years - nto . org . uk
THE NATIONAL TRAINIG ORGANISATION FOR SPORT ,  RECREATION AND ALLIED OCCUPATIONS  ( SPRITO )  provides information for people considering a career in Playwork . 
Contact :  The Playwork Unit ,  SPRITO ,  24 Stephenson Way ,  London NW1 2HD .   Tel :  020 7388 7755 extension 206 .   Website :  www . playwork . org . uk
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT NATIONAL TRAINING ORGANISATION  ( LGNTO )  has developed National Occupational Standards for Teaching Assistants and will shortly have completed the details for the  NVQs at Levels 2 and 3 based on them . 
They will be relevant to assistants working with children from Reception to age 16 . 
LOCAL PRESS .   Work is often advertised in the local press ,  so it's worth looking there for vacancies . 
LOCAL EMPLOYERS .   You can also contact nurseries ,  pre - schools and playgroups and Playwork schemes direct to ask whether they have any vacancies . 
Your local Jobcentre will have information about Work - Based Learning for Adults ,  Modern Apprenticeships or the New Deal . 
Ask to speak to a New Deal adviser ,  or ring the New Deal Information Line on 0845 606 2626 for an information pack ,  or visit the website at www . newdeal . gov . uk
OFFICE FOR STANDARDS IN EDUCATION can offer advice on all requirements for working in Early Years ,  Childcare and Playwork . 
Tel :  0845 601 4771 .   Website :  www . ofsted . gov . uk
A little reading goes a long way
Helping with your children's reading
Learning at Home
All children need to learn to read ,  and all parents want their children to be able to read and write . 
The most important thing is that children learn better when they enjoy reading . 
By enjoying books together and sharing a love of stories from the earliest age ,  you are helping your child develop  -  and learning to read is fun ! 
You taught your children the first things they ever knew . 
Young children watch what adults do and learn by copying them . 
Reading is no different ,  but they must want to learn to read . 
It will help if they can see others enjoying reading themselves . 
Girls ,  in particular ,  need to know that reading is important ,  and fathers and grandfathers reading to them can help . 
Seeing adults reading from books ,  newspapers ,  recipes or menus will make children want to read for themselves . 
Your child will gain a lot from spending time with you talking and listening ,  reading and writing . 
Most children will try hard to please you and will want to do well . 
Best of all ,  sharing the fun of reading is a great experience for children and adults . 
Who this booklet is for
In this site we refer to 'your child' . 
In fact ,  it's aimed at grandparents ,  aunts and uncles ,  guardians ,  carers and friends  -  not just parents . 
First Steps
Babies love words and language . 
They love it when you sing and read to them and tell them stories ,  poems and rhymes  -  and even small babies can enjoy books . 
From the start ,  the time you spend reading with your children will make books and stories come alive . 
Board books and bath books are often the first books children will come across . 
They can be treated as toys ,  but they will help them learn how to handle books ,  how to turn pages and how to enjoy the shapes ,  colours and pictures . 
Children often want to listen to the same story again and again . 
This is fine ,  as it builds confidence and familiarity with words ,  and reinforces that stories are fun . 
Try to share books together each day ,  and not just at bedtime . 
A few minutes of special ,  quiet time with a book every day is much more valuable than half an hour a week . 
One of the main ways in which you can help children to become readers is by sharing books and reading aloud to them . 
They will learn to talk about the story and pictures ,  join in the parts they know and eventually recognise the words on the page . 
Learning to read
Most children learn to read by putting letters together that match up with the sounds that they remember hearing . 
They learn the sounds that letters make . 
They learn how letters join together to make words . 
Words don't just belong in books . 
Look around  -  you'll see them everywhere : 
on signs and posters ; 
in shop windows and newspapers ; 
on groceries and football shirts ;  and
in the titles of TV programmes . 
You can help by doing the following : 
Singing . 
Rhymes help children see how letters make the same pattern in different words . 
Play 'odd one out games' . 
For example ,  which word is the odd one in a list like cat ,  mat ,  dog ,  sat ? 
Play 'I - spy' . 
It is a great way of showing that every word begins with a letter . 
At the shops ,  point out the names of different kinds of food as you go past them  ( for example ,  apples ,  bacon ,  and cheese )  . 
Encourage your child to choose a book for you to read to them . 
Show your child the way words go from left to right on the page by underlining them with fingers  -  yours first ,  then theirs ! 
Don't keep them guessing for a long time if they can't say a new word  -  help them spell it out slowly using the sounds of the letters and then say it faster together . 
Praise your child when they work out a new word for themselves ,  or when they go back and put right a word they got wrong the first time . 
Help and encouragement
Ask your child's teachers for advice and ideas about how you can help with reading and writing . 
Ask other mums and dads  ( including your own )  for tips . 
Remember to encourage your child every time they read or write with you . 
Never say children are lazy or stupid if they can't do it first time . 
The next step
Between the ages of four and seven ,  most children learn to read ,  but even when they can read ,  you should still try to read to them as often as possible . 
Sharing stories with a grown - up will teach them new words and will encourage them to become better readers . 
Children develop their reading skills in different ways . 
Some may want to get every word exactly right while other children will race to the end of a story . 
Other children may read hesitantly . 
Try to respond to your child's needs and let them read at their own pace . 
Eventually ,  you will know in which ways your child needs more help . 
Some children may need to slow down and look more carefully at each word . 
Others will need to move the story along and not worry so much about their mistakes . 
If they get stuck ,  encourage them to use all the available information and everything they know to make a guess . 
They should look at the pictures and remember what has happened in the story . 
Their ability to predict and guess accurately will gradually improve . 
You can also help by doing the following : 
Make the most of books your child brings home from school . 
Read them ,  or parts of them yourself and talk about them with your child . 
Check your child is really following what they're reading by asking them to tell you the story in their own words  -  who's it about ?   What happens ? 
Allow your child to re - read favourite and familiar stories ,  or to hear you re - read them . 
Knowing a familiar book will help them notice more about the words on the page and they will start to recognise the patterns in new words and stories . 
Listen to stories learned by heart and encourage your child to re - tell them in their own words ,  or even act them out . 
Buy books as presents instead of toys . 
Set up a special place for books from the library or their own books . 
Be positive
Don't panic !  Your child probably isn't the best or worst at anything at school . 
Don't make your child feel that reading and writing are 'special' or harder than other things they're learning . 
If they're struggling ,  remind them of other things they're good at  -  such as drawing or cycling or football or singing . 
Getting better
As we have said ,  part of learning to be a better reader is being able to guess what new words mean sand how they sound . 
There are many ways in which you can continue to play a very important role in the development of your child's reading . 
You can help by doing the following : 
Find books about something you know they like  -  maybe animals ,  or how other people live ,  or outer space . 
Read a story together ,  then read it out again ,  missing out words . 
Get your child to fill in the blanks . 
A different word that means the same thing may be suggested . 
That's good . 
It shows that your child is thinking about the story and words . 
Help your child see that they already know the biggest part of words like play - ing ,  eat - en ,  walk - ed by breaking the word down . 
Write out long words and cut them into bite - sized pieces . 
Get your child to put the pieces back together the right way round . 
When your child reads and gets a word wrong ,  let them finish the line before you put them right . 
Children often realise what the word should be ,  go back and correct themselves . 
If your child doesn't know a word in a sentence ,  get them to say 'something' instead . 
They can often work it out from other words around it . 
Try to keep cool !  It's important not to get fed up if your child needs to practise things over and over again . 
Choosing books  -  help is at hand
Choosing books for children can be a huge pleasure ,  or you might not know where to start . 
As members of your local library ,  you and you child will be able to borrow from a large range of books . 
The librarians will be able to give helpful advice to adults who want to choose books for their children . 
Also ,  keep your eyes open for book and storytelling events taking place in the library . 
Other parents may have books that have been popular ,  and many children will tell their friends about their favourite books
Learning to write
Children are often eager to write . 
Writing often follows on from drawing and from the child's reading . 
Children like to be able to write their names ,  to label drawings or to write a story to go with a picture . 
They learn about reading through their writing ,  having to think about the sound and how words look . 
When they see that writing is a way of telling someone something ,  just like talking ,  they usually want to try it for themselves . 
You can help them by doing the following : 
Get young children used to making the shapes of letters by joining dots or using a pen to go over shapes you've drawn in pencil . 
At the beginning ,  don't worry too much about untidy writing . 
You don't want to put them off having fun when they're learning . 
Don't worry if your child crosses words out when they're writing . 
Lots of children try out different spellings until they feel a word looks right . 
Get them to try out words on scrap paper ,  then put the word in its proper place when they are happy with it . 
Write a story that your child has told you . 
They can learn from watching you write and can help by suggesting letters and spellings . 
Help them to make their own labels ,  notices ,  cards and books . 
If they want to write a story ,  help them to think of what it's about ,  what happens and how it ends . 
Ask questions about the characters in the story . 
You  ( or they )  could write down some notes to help them remember all their ideas . 
Explain that they need different words to write about the past  ( we walked to the shops yesterday )  ,  present  ( today I am here )  and future  ( tomorrow I will go swimming )  . 
Use lower case rather than capitals . 
Children find it easier to practise the patterns of the letters that way . 
Word banks
You can make a word box filled with words your child uses most and which you can add new words to . 
Or ,  your child can make their own lists of common ,  popular ,  difficult and new words . 
Spelling
Lots of children find spelling hard . 
If it gets in the way of your child's enjoyment of reading and writing ,  there are ways you can help using everyday items . 
You can help them by doing the following : 
Spell out words with fridge magnets ,  or letter tiles from word games . 
Take some letters out and get your child to put the right ones back in the right places . 
Play games with lists of words . 
Can they put them in alphabetical order using the first letter of a word  ( for example ,  cat ,  fat ,  hat ,  mat and sat )  ? 
Or can they do this by the second letter  ( for example ,  bag ,  beg ,  big ,  bog and bug )  ? 
Give them old newspapers or magazines to play word - finding games  -  for example ,  get them to highlight or draw a circle round every word that ends with 'ing' ,  or every word beginning with 't' . 
Think up harder versions as your child learns more ! Draw or cut out pictures of things that have only one letter different  ( like 'pen' and 'pin' )  to help them get used to how different vowels  ( a , e , i , o , u )  work . 
Use a mirror so your child can see how their mouth moves when saying letters that can easily get mixed up when they write them down ,  like 'm' and 'w' ,  or 'p' and 'g' . 
Make up games to help your child see the difference between words like 'tap' and 'tape' or 'hop' and 'hope' where the last letter changes the way you say the whole word . 
Get them to play at rearranging letters to make other words  ( anagrams )  out of their name ,  or other words they know . 
Dictionaries
Practice looking up words together and sharing the dictionary . 
Children need help in looking up words ,  following alphabetical order and guessing how a word may start . 
There are many good dictionaries written specially for children . 
Words are everywhere
Some more ideas to help your child to read when you haven't got a book . 
Going to the shops
Some shops still have a sign over the door that says what they sell . 
Can your child put the words together with what's in the window  ( hairdressers ,  shoes ,  and so on )  ? 
Look in the papers
If your child recognises a famous face  ( for example ,  a footballer or a TV star )  it will make them want to try to read the story . 
In the streets
You'll see advertising posters and place names . 
In the shops
Your child can help you find things in the supermarket by reading out what's in the aisles . 
Videos
Video boxes usually tell you the story . 
Get your child to read what's on the box as well as just watching the film . 
On a bus or train trip
Place names on the front of the bus or train ,  posters on the bus or tube . 
Even the ticket is worth reading to a child ! 
Look at holiday brochures together  -  Help your child read about other places . 
Unpacking the shopping
Your child can read the words on your groceries  ( for example ,  corn flakes ,  tea bags ,  and burgers )  while helping you put things away . 
Some CDs and tapes have song words printed on them
Your child will probably find it easier to follow words if they hear them at the same time . 
You can help by doing the following : 
Whenever you're reading together ,  make sure your child feels OK and is comfortable . 
Use books with pictures ,  and later ,  with pictures and words . 
Picture books help children match the pictures to the words . 
Don't cover up the pictures to make your child 'read properly' . 
Write titles under pictures  ( for example ,  dog ,  mummy ,  house )  to show them that words belong to things . 
You can also stick labels on things at home  -  or when they're older get them to do it themselves  ( for example ,  door ,  cup )  . 
Start with simple words . 
No book handy ?  Don't worry ! 
Think about other ways you can use the word you see all around you to help your child become a better reader . 
You probably won't run out of ideas ! 
Questions and answers
1 My son always puts off reading his book at home . 
Try to find a subject or character he really likes . 
Share the reading with him  -  one line ,  or one page each . 
Find a comfortable place ,  and encourage him  -  he really wants to do well . 
2 My grand - daughter keeps losing her place on the page . 
Use your finger  ( and hers )  to help her read from left to right . 
3 My nephew muddles up i and e when he reads . 
Play games with the two letters  -  put things that begin with the letter 'i' in one box ,  and 'e' in another ,  or pictures of things like 'pin' and 'pen' and play mixing - up and sorting games with them . 
4 My daughter seems to do nothing but crosswords and word puzzles . 
Anything involving words and letters helps with reading and writing skills . 
5 My son is left - handed . 
Will this be a problem ? 
No ,  this won't be a problem but he may need extra help . 
Try getting him to hold the paper at an angle so it slopes towards his writing hand . 
He may need to hold the pen slightly higher . 
You can talk to your son's teacher about this as well . 
6 Would paper with lines help my son's messy writing ? 
Lines will help him keep his writing straight and easier to read . 
Use lines with wide spaces to start with . 
7 My daughter has started to write but her letters seem so awkward . 
What can I do ? 
Writing large letters will help her feel the shape as she makes them . 
Try felt - tip pens on big sheets of paper . 
Don't put her off writing  -  helping her get what she wants to say down on paper is as important as neatness . 
8 My grandson loves writing stories ,  but gets confused and bored and loses the point . 
Talk to him about his ideas for the story  -  the beginning ,  characters ,  places ,  main events ,  and how it ends . 
Help him write it down to use as a guide . 
9 My son crosses words out and has several tries before getting it right . 
Does this matter ? 
No ,  have a spare sheet of paper for him to try out spellings on ,  or let him write in pencil so he can rub it out if he needs to . 
10 If my daughter doesn't know a word in her reading book ,  should I tell her ? 
Yes ,  but not until she has had chance to work it out or read to the end of the sentence . 
Remember the three Ps : 
pause  -  give her time to work it out ; 
prompt  -  look for something in the word she knows ,  like the first letter ; 
and praise  -  tell her when she's been successful . 
11 My son muddles up b and d when he's reading or writing . 
Does it matter ? 
Lots of children get letters that look alike ,  such as 'p' and 'g' ,  'm' and 'w' ,  'n' and 'u' ,  confused . 
Concentrate on getting one letter right at a time . 
Help him listen to the different sounds and feel how he makes them  -  lips together for 'b' ,  or apart for 'd' . 
Useful information
Helpful book organisations
Book Trust is a charitable organisation that provides many services ,  including free book lists ,  which will help you choose . 
Their address is : 
Book Trust ,  Book House , 
45 East Hill , 
London SW18 2QZ
Tel :  0181 516 2977
The Federation of Children's Book Groups also provides book lists and advice . 
Their address is : 
Federation of Children's Book Groups , 
9 Westroyd ,  Pudsey , 
West Yorkshire LS28 8HZ
Tel :  0113 257 9950
or visit their web site for book reviews at :  http :  /  / www . fcbg . mcmail . com
Help for adults with reading difficulties 
Whether it is books ,  magazines or newspapers ,  reading can be a great way to relax  -  for parents as well as children . 
Your local library is a great source of free reading material and a librarian will be available to suggest books you may enjoy . 
If you think you would like to learn to read and write better so you can help your child more ,  why not ; 
ask at their school about getting help
ask at your local library about help for those who want to improve their reading skills ,  or ask about adult education classes ;  or
call free on 0800 700 987 for details of local courses . 
National Literacy Strategy 
You can help your child's teacher . 
Your child may be given books to take home and read with you . 
The school may run courses for parents who want to know more ,  or some - times ask you to help in the school . 
National Year of Reading 
The Government is also supporting thousands of events across the UK in the National Year of Reading . 
These run from September 1998 to August 1999 . 
The year is for everyone  -  children and their parents ,  teenagers ,  keen readers and those who have never picked up a book in their life . 
The year aims to get more families reading together  -  and talking about what they read . 
You can find out more about the National Year of Reading by visiting the Department's web site at :   / reading 
Learning to Read and Write at Home and at School
Parents as partners
This leaflet is for parents of children in infant ,  primary and junior schools . 
We are sending it to you as part of the National Literacy Strategy . 
This national government initiative aims to raise standards of reading and writing for all children . 
Of course ,  parents are very important partners in helping children with reading and writing . 
This leaflet : 
sets out some of the main things we know about how children learn to read and write 
describes ways that reading and writing are taught in schools
explains why lessons are planned in this way
asks for your help in supporting reading and writing at home 
Learning to read and write
Reading ,  writing ,  talking and listening are a key part of what children learn in their first years at school . 
Your child's teacher will build on the experiences they bring with them to school . 
All the learning they do at home with you and at school with their teachers ,  helps children to : 
want to read
enjoy talking about what they read and telling us what they think
find things out by reading  -  from stories ,  information books ,  catalogues or newspapers  .  .  . 
learn new words
get their ideas across in writing
understand that people write in different ways for different reasons
spell words correctly and write clearly
read and write confidently
Children learn to read best when they have many ways of working out the meaning . 
These are like searchlights . 
The more lights that are turned on ,  the easier it is for them to read . 
The 'lights' include : 
the sounds of letters
the shapes of letters and words  ( that they recognise by sight ) 
the meaning  ( what will come next .  .  .  )  
The more opportunities children have ,  at school and at home ,  to enjoy reading ,  the sooner they begin to be confident about it . 
Reading and writing at school
Your child may tell you about the literacy hour ,  and what happens in it . 
All the time in the literacy hour is spent on reading and writing . 
There is a literacy hour every day of the week . 
It is usually divided into four parts . 
Whole class about 10 minutes reporting back and thinking about what has been learned
Whole class about 15 minutes shared reading or writing
Small groups about 20 minutes guided reading or writing
Whole class about 15 minutes word work ,  sentence work
Whole class  -  shared reading and writing 
Early reading and writing 
With young children the teacher works with the whole class for the first half hour . 
He or she may begin by reading with all the children ,  using a 'big book' . 
First she will read the book aloud ,  and point to the words and pictures . 
Then she will read it again and the children will join in . 
The teacher will ask questions and encourage the children to think about what they read . 
Questions might be : 
What do you think will happen next ? 
Where is the title of the book ? 
What does that word mean ? 
Why was that part funny ? 
Can you tell us about something funny that happened to you ? 
What do you think it will be about ? 
to know that the words go from left to right
to see where one word ends and the next word begins
to recognise letters and words
to hear the sounds of letters
to recognise words or sounds that rhyme
to know about full stops ,  commas and other punctuation . 
Group work 
In the next part of the hour ,  the class is split up into groups of four to six children . 
They may work as a group or in pairs . 
Each day the teacher works with one or two different groups . 
When they are reading ,  all the children have copies of the same book . 
Because the other children are taught how to work independently ,  the teacher can give full attention to the group he or she is teaching . 
Whole group
For the last part of the literacy hour the teacher works with the whole class again . 
She asks the children to discuss what they have been doing and review what they have learned . 
Why have a literacy hour ?  
Because reading and writing are so important ,  it makes sense to give them a set time ,  every day . 
The teacher can teach all the children some of the main points they need to learn . 
The children also learn from listening to one another . 
Schools that are trying the literacy hour find it works well and leads to good improvements in children's reading and writing . 
When will the teacher hear my child read ? 
There are many times in the literacy hour and in other lessons when teachers will hear children reading and see how they are getting on . 
In the 'group work' time ,  when the teacher has just four to six children ,  he will work with your child and hear them reading . 
What do older children do in the literacy hour ? 
As children become independent readers and writers ,  they still spend an hour every day on reading and writing . 
They work on more complex books . 
Each term they read different kinds of books :  information books ,  legends ,  stories ,  poems ,  plays and diaries . 
They learn to spell more difficult words . 
They learn how sentences and paragraphs are put together . 
They draft and edit their writing . 
This might be a news article ,  a set of instructions ,  a description ,  a letter or a story . 
Will my child learn reading and writing at other times ? 
Yes . 
They use their reading and writing in other lessons . 
And there are times when they can do more reading ,  or finish a piece of writing . 
How will I know what progress my child is making ?  
Your child's teacher will talk with you about your child's progress in reading and writing . 
She will also set targets . 
For example ,  for a young child this might be : 
to learn five letters of the alphabet
to leave spaces between words
to tell the story in their own words . 
For an older child it might be : 
to explain what a person in a story is like
to write in paragraphs
to learn how to spell a number of words
to take notes as they watch a video . 
Your child's school will let you know what your child is working towards ,  and ask you to help by : 
practising with them to help them reach their target
praising them when they reach it . 
Your child's teacher will also let you know about other ways you can help . 
She may : 
send books home and ask you to read them with your child
ask parents to help in school
hold meetings or courses for parents who want to know more
explain the school's homework policy and ask for your support
Reading and Writing at Home
Young children learn a great deal from you about reading and writing ,  before they start school . 
They learn to talk and listen to what you say . 
They learn about looking at books ,  asking questions about the story and starting to write . 
When they go to school ,  the help you give them is just as important . 
The more chances your child has to enjoy reading and writing at home ,  the better . 
Little and often works well . 
With young children it helps to : 
read stories together
talk about the story together
let them see you reading and writing
make shopping lists together
help them to read signs and labels when you're out together
visit the public library
share songs and rhymes
listen to tapes of books and songs
talk about TV programmes . 
If I am listening to my child read ,  and they are stuck on a word ,  what should I do ?  
You could : 
let them read on  -  then they may be able to work out the word
point to a picture ,  if this helps them with the meaning
give them the first or last sound and see if they can read the word
read the word for them . 
You could read along with them . 
If they are stuck ,  first : 
pause ,  then
prompt ,  then , 
praise . 
Encourage them to talk about the ideas in the story . 
With older children it helps to : 
read with them and talk about the ideas  -  in information books ,  stories ,  newspapers or magazines about hobbies ,  music ,  TV ,  sport
encourage them to read 'everyday' print  -  in DIY manuals ,  TV guides ,  catalogues
give them plenty of chances for writing  -  in notebooks ,  diaries ,  scrapbooks ,  or on a computer
help them to notice the spellings of common words  ( because ,  many )  and encourage them to look at words ,  check and remember how words that they use often are spelt . 
Help at home gives children the best start in reading and writing
Teaching Children Road Safety
A guide for parents
Parents ! 
Your child's best road safety teacher is you
Why ? 
Because basic road safety can best be taught in the street . 
Your child is out and about with you . 
He or she will follow your example ,  good or bad
Please don't wait for the school to teach your child road safety . 
Teach them the basic skills yourself . 
These are the facts : 
over 140 children are killed and 4 , 200 seriously injured on our roads every year while walking or cycling ; 
most serious road accidents involving children walking and cycling happen close to home ,  on residential roads carrying only light traffic ; 
and those aged 12 - 15 are the most likely to be killed or seriously injured . 
Although they know the Green Cross Code they don't always apply it . 
What can you do ? 
You can do a lot to protect your child . 
This leaflet tells you the best way to teach the skills your child needs . 
Make sure that grandparents ,  childminders ,  or anyone looking after your child sets the same example as you do . 
Remember that children develop at different rates . 
Only you can decide when your child is ready to move from one stage to the next . 
Ages 1 to 4 :  Protect your Child
Children under five cannot cope with traffic . 
Never let them out alone or even with an older child . 
Choose somewhere safe for them to play ;  never on the pavement or in the road ,  however quiet . 
If there is nowhere else for them to go ,  make sure an adult looks after them . 
When you go out ,  make sure your child walks on the side of the pavement away from the traffic ,  either holding your hand ,  on reins or in a buggy or pushchair . 
Never allow your child to ride a bike on the road even if you are close by . 
Set a good example . 
Explain what traffic is . 
Tell your child about stopping at the kerb ,  looking and listening for traffic before crossing . 
Explain the difference between the road and the pavement  -  the road is for traffic and the pavement for people . 
Explain that sometimes traffic crosses the pavement ,  so your child must always watch out . 
Every child should learn about traffic before going to school . 
Ask the road safety officer at your local council offices if they run a traffic club or other road safety programme for children under five . 
Ages 5 to 6 :  Teaching your child
Whenever you take your child out walking ,  tell them what you are doing and why . 
Teach the main points of the Green Cross Code : 
STOP !  LOOK !  LISTEN ! 
These are the first points to learn . 
See page 14 for the full Code . 
Practise on quiet roads near home . 
First ,  show what to do . 
Then let your child lead you across . 
Finally ,  let him or her cross while you wait behind ,  watching carefully . 
At this age ,  children are not ready to cross alone . 
Make sure an adult is always with them when they cross . 
The risk of a road accident rises when children start school . 
Most happen when children are not with an adult . 
Why not set up a rota with two or three other parents and share taking the children to and from school ? 
Take the safest route to school ,  crossing roads at the safest place and explaining why . 
Where there is a crossing use it . 
Ages 7 to 9 :  Now for the Green Cross Code
Explain the rules of the Green Cross Code ,  shown on page 14 . 
When you are sure your child knows and understands them ,  let him or her use them while crossing the quiet roads where you have been practising . 
Watch and test before letting your child cross quiet roads alone . 
Later ,  start to practise crossing busier roads together . 
Do this many ,  many times before you let your child cross alone . 
Many children cannot judge how fast vehicles are going or how far away they are . 
The age when they can use and understand the Green Cross Code is different for each child . 
Children learn by example ,  so when walking with children always use the Green Cross Code . 
Being seen
Make sure your child can be easily seen . 
Bright or fluorescent clothes show up best by day ,  especially in dull or misty weather ,  but fluorescent clothing doesn't work after dark . 
Reflective material does work well and shows up in car headlights . 
Explain to your child why they should always wear something bright ,  especially at night . 
Ages 10 to 15 :  Help them to think for themselves
This is the age when children need to get more and more independence . 
They may also have longer journeys to school and to see friends . 
Keep talking to your child about the dangers of traffic . 
Point out people who are endangering themselves or others . 
Check the routes to school and discuss any dangers together . 
Get your child to practise judging the speed and distance of approaching vehicles on a busy road and identifying safe gaps . 
Stress that they should never blindly follow others across the road . 
They must always think for themselves . 
Children between 12 and 15 are most at risk of being killed or seriously injured . 
Many of them think they 'know it all' . 
It's up to you to make them take road safety seriously . 
Road safety at school
Ask your child's teacher or a school governor about road safety education at school ,  and what cycle training courses are available . 
Encourage your child to take one . 
Make sure your child always wears a cycle helmet and wear one yourself if you ride a bike . 
How to use a crossing
1 .  Stop at the kerb at the crossing . 
 Wait for the traffic to stop . 
If there is a button ,  press it and wait for the green man . 
2 .  When the traffic has stopped ,  walk across ,  but keep looking and listening . 
Always cross on the stripes ,  or between the studs on a crossing with a red and green man . 
Don't cross on the zig - zag markings ,  as many accidents happen close to crossings . 
3 .  If there is an island in the middle of the crossing treat each half of the road as a separate crossing . 
Stop at the island and wait for the traffic on the other side to stop before you continue . 
In the car
Teach your child to be a good passenger . 
Explain that they mustn't distract the driver . 
Use a child restraint  ( car seat )  or seat belt that is right for your child's size . 
This will help to protect them from serious injury . 
The law says that you should not carry an unrestrained child in the front seat of any vehicle and that child restraints and seat belts must be used in the back if they are available . 
WARNING : 
It is not safe to carry a child on your lap or to carry two people in one seat belt . 
Never use a rear facing child restraint in the front seat of a car fitted with a passenger air bag . 
For children of 13 and under it is the driver's responsibility to make sure that seat belts are worn . 
Several different types of child restraints are available baby seats ,  child seats ,  booster seats and booster cushions . 
The right one depends on the weight ,  size and age of your child . 
All child restraints must carry the United Nations 'E' mark or BS Kitemark and should be properly installed . 
If you want to know more you can order a copy of the leaflet Seat belts and child restraints ,  product code T / INF / 2511 ,  from DTI - R Free Literature Service . 
Phone 0870 122 6236 or contact your local authority road safety officer . 
Th Green cross code
Remember the green cross code
Where there is a crossing nearby ,  use it . 
Otherwise choose a place where you can see clearly in all directions . 
Try to avoid crossing between parked cars . 
Move to a space where find a safe place to drivers can see you clearly . 
1 .  Think first
Find a safe place to cross then stop
2 .  Stop
Stand on tke pavernent near the kerb . 
Stand where you can see if anything is coming . 
Do not get too close to the traffic . 
If there is no pavement ,  keep back from the edge of the road but make sure you can still see approaching traffic . 
3 .  Use your eyes and ears
Look all around for traffic and listen . 
Traffic could come from  any direction . 
Also listen ,  because you can sometimes hear traffic before you see it . 
4 .  Wait 'till it's safe to cross
If traffic is coming let it pass . 
look all around again
Look all around again and listen . 
Do not cross until there is a safe gap in the traffic and you are certain that there is plenty of time . 
Remember ,  even if traffic is a long way off ,  it may be approaching very quickly . 
5 .  Look and listen again
When there's no traffic near walk straight across the road
Keep looking and listening for traffic while you cross ,  in case there is any you did not see ,  or in case other traffic appears suddenly . 
6 Arrive alive
Keep looking and listening for traffic while you cross
ASSURED SAFE CATERING
A Management System for Hazard Analysis
Introduction
The manager of owner of each catering or food business has to be able to satisfy each customer's demands and expectations that food :  
arrives as ordered ;  
is at right temperature ;  
looks appetising and tastes good ;  
gives value for money ;  
but above all  -  it must be safe . 
Food poisoning may occur even when food has been prepared in clean kitchens if the food is not stored ,  prepared ,  cooked and served properly . 
Assured safe catering is a system developed for caterers and with caterers to control food safety problems . 
It is based upon the principles of the system used in food manufacturing sometimes called Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point  ( HACCP )  . 
Assured safe catering looks at the catering operation step by step ,  from the selections of the ingredients right through to the serving of the food to the customer . 
By carefully analysing each step of the catering operation ,  anything which might affect the safety of the food is identified . 
You can then decide when and how to control that hazard . 
Assured Safe Catering helps prevent safety problems by careful planning in easy steps . 
Hazards
A hazard is anything that may cause harm to a customer . 
A hazard may be :  
Biological ;   eg salmonella in chicken ;  
Physical ;   eg glass in food of any kind ;  
Chemical ;   eg cleaning chemicals in any kind of food . 
How to develop an Assured Safe Catering system
The diagram below shows the stages to go through to set up an Assured Safe Catering system . 
This can be applied to any size of catering business . 
Stage 1 Planning
Stage 2 Getting organised
Stage 3 Draw a flow chart of the operation showing the catering steps
Stage 4 For each catering step :  
1 )  list hazards
2 )  identify controls
3 )  determine critical control points
4 )  monitor / record
5 )  put into action 
6 )  check
Stage 5 Repeat stage 4  ( For each catering step )  
Full system in action
Stage 6 Full screen check
Stage 7 Review
Stage 1 :   Planning . 
You will have to do some planning and preparation before developing the system . 
You will also have to make sure that your stuff know about ,  and understand ,  any changes to your catering operation made because the system has been brought in . 
You must keep them up to date with changes as the system grows and develops . 
Don't try and introduce the system at once . 
Set it up for each step of your operation ,  and make sure it is working properly before moving on the next step . 
Stage 2 :   Getting organised . 
To set up an Assured Safe Catering system ,  you will need to decide how many people will be needed . 
This will depend on the size of your business ;   in a small business ,  this may be only one or two . 
In larger businesses ,  it may be necessary to set up a team . 
You should include people who can recognise hazards ,  control measures and the critical control points without too much difficulty . 
This means that they will need to understand each step of the catering operation as well as food hygiene principles . 
For a team ,  you should have a Team leader  ( this may be you )  who will have the job setting up the system and getting it running . 
You may also need to bring other people on to the team ,  depending on which step in the operation you are looking at . 
Stage 3 :   Drawing up a flow diagram . 
A simplified example is shown on the next page . 
Once the diagram has been drawn up ,  you will need to check that all the foods produced in your operation are covered . 
You will need to take copies of the diagram to check that it really shows what is going on in the kitchen and that steps have not been missed . 
Stage 4 :   Listing the hazards  ( a )  to checking the system  ( f )  . 
For this stage you should use the flow chart to deal with each step in the operation already identified . 
With the first step work through Stages 4 ( a )  to 4 ( f )  before moving on to the next step on the flow chart . 
Stage 4 ( a )  :   Listing the hazards . 
The Assured Safe Catering Team need to be able to recognise a hazard or get help from someone else who is able to do so . 
Remember :   A Hazard is anything that may cause harm to a customer . 
Stage 4 ( b )  :   Identify the control measures . 
List the things you need to do to remove the identified hazards or reduce them to safe levels . 
Some hazards may be controlled as a larger stage of the catering operation . 
You must be able to carry out the control measures in the kitchen where they are to be operated ,  otherwise you may not be able to use them . 
Stage 4 ( c )  :   Critical control points
A critical control point is the step in the preparation of the food which has to be carried out correctly to make sure that a hazard is removed or reduced to a safe level . 
You should control the hazards shown in the Critical Control points Chart . 
You will need to identify the Critical Control Points that apply to your operation . 
There may be other Critical Control Points in your operation that are not shown in the chart . 
Stage 4 ( d )  :   Decide how to check and if necessary record that the controls have been applied . 
Checking :   Keep the methods you use to check as simple as possible ,  e.g. 
On delivery ,  check what the food looks like ,  its packaging ,  and the best before or use by dates ;  
Check that all equipment ,  eg knives and chopping boards ,  is cleaned before it is used . 
Recording :   Where possible ,  and where it will be useful ,  keep records to check that the food safety controls are adequate and that they work . 
Records will also give useful information if there is a query from a environmental health officer or a customer . 
Stage 4 ( e )  :   Putting the system into action
You will need to prepare any necessary record sheets . 
You may need to produce instructions for controls and checking procedures for staff to refer to . 
Instructions should say :  
What is to be done ;  
How it is to be done ;  
When it is to be done ;  
Where it is to be done ;  
Who is to do it . 
Make sure all staff know and understand what they have to do so that the system works properly . 
Stage 4 ( f )  :   Checking the system
Once you have the system in place for the first step of the operation ,  check it through to make sure that :  
It is running as you planned it to run ;   
The checking of the critical control points is satisfactory . 
Stage 5 :   Repeat stage 4 for each step of the operation
You may now move on to the stage of the operation as shown on the flow chart . 
You should carry out the same procedures from 4 ( a )  to 4 ( f )  for this step in the operation . 
Stage 6 :   Full system check
Once the system has been set up for all the steps on the flow chart ,  you will need to check that the whole system is working as you intend it to . 
This means making sure that the critical points you identified are :  
Being applied correctly ;  
Being checked as often as necessary ;  
Accompanied by adequate instructions . 
Stage 7 :   Full system review
After the system has been developed and is running you may make changes to the way you carry out your business ,  or to your premises ;   and there may be staff changes that affect the Assured Safe Catering system . 
If this happens you will need to look at the whole system to make sure that it is still working or to see if any alterations or improvements are now needed . 
You should also review the system fairly soon after it has been put fully in to operation to make sure that any teething problems can be tackled and put right . 
Reviews may be needed :  
When checks show that the system is not working correctly ;  
When there are significant changes to the types of food being served ,  the layout or design of your premises ,  changes in the way you buy or prepare the food ,  or ;  
From time to time to see that the system is working . 
Assured Safe Catering will help you ,  your business ,  and your customers . 
For further information about food poisoning ,  hazards ,  hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point ,  refer to DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ASSURED CATERING ,  A MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR HAZARD ANALYSIS
Drugs and Solvents  -  You and Your Child
If you don't talk to your child about drugs ,  someone else will . 
Help Prevent your children using drugs
Most children don't get involved with drugs and solvents . 
But in today's world it's inevitable that your children will come into contact with them at some time . 
Young people nowadays find out about drugs earlier than you think  -  from the media or from friends or older children . 
But it's much better if they learn the facts from you than from their classmates behind the bike sheds or from watching TV
If you don't talk to your child about drugs ,  someone else will . 
Your support can help your children to cope if they come under pressure to use drugs . 
Simply by talking to your children ,  you can influence whether they decide to give drugs and solvents a try  -  and you can help them to stop if you do find out they are already experimenting . 
Why Do They Do It ? 
If you understand the reasons why a child can get involved with drugs and solvents ,  it's much easier for you to talk to your children about it . 
If you ask children and teenagers who use drugs why they do it ,  they say :   
to rebel or shock people
so they feel they belong to a group or friends
because they want to take risks
because it's fun
because it's the in thing to do
it's part of a night out  -  maybe at a rave
because it feels and looks grown - up
as an escape from the pressures of living in modern society
because they are bored ;  
because drugs are easy to get hold of . 
Many of these reasons for trying drugs and solvents might seem ridiculous to us . 
However ,  they might seem very real to our children . 
When you are young tomorrow doesn't exist  -  you live for today . 
You can help your children to see that drugs and solvents can be dangerous for their health and well - being in the future . 
Whose Children Get Involved with Drugs ?  
The simple answer can be ,  anyone's  -  all children can be tempted to use drugs ,  no matter where they come from ,  what school they go to ,  or how bright they are . 
There is not always an obvious explanation for it . 
What's important is that you can help influence your children not to start using drugs or solvents . 
How You Can Help Your Children ?  
You can and do make a difference to your children's behaviour  -  even if it's hard to believe sometimes . 
There are many ways for you to influence your children not to try drugs and solvents . 
No one can be a perfect parent ,  and not all these ideas are easy to put into practice  -  but all of them will help . 
Keep Talking to Each Other 
Everyone needs to be able to talk about and listen to other people . 
It's a basic human need ,  particularly for parents and children . 
If it stops happening ,  problems and misunderstandings creep in ,  and you can become isolated from your children . 
This leaves them more likely to respond to other people  -  who could be telling them anything . 
So keep the communication lines open . 
Listen
Being able to listen is a key aspect of good communication ,  but it's not as easy as it might seem . 
Good listening means :  
showing you are attentive
trying to understand what your child is saying to you
taking time to find out about your child's views being heard ,  listen to those of your child
not butting in all the time  -  don't insist on your own views being heard ,  listen to those of your child . 
Tell Them About You
Children often find it hard to believe you were young once ! 
Remind them that you too were faced with dilemmas and decisions  ( although this is not an excuse to drag out all those long stories beginning  " When I was your age .  .  .  "  )  . 
Reveal to them that you were not perfect either ,  and that you make mistakes . 
You might want to point out that being able to talk through problems is helpful . 
There's some truth in the saying  " a problem shared is a problem halved "  . 
Let your children know that you would like to share your problems with them rather than always expecting it to be the other way round . 
Let them see you are human . 
Put yourself in their shoes . 
Young people often feel that they are facing problems that nobody else in the world has ever had before . 
It will help you if you can show that you do appreciate what it's like for them . 
It's not necessarily giving them the answer  -  or boring them with your own stories from the past . 
It just means showing them that you are sensitive to their problems . 
Try looking at the world through their eyes ! 
Be there . 
You can't always be available for your children . 
You need to work and have time to relax ,  and they need to appreciate that . 
It's important ,  though ,  that your children know the door is always open for them to talk to you . 
You could start a regular time together to talk about any problems or worries . 
Or ,  you could make an agreement that they can contact you at any time if they really need to . 
Although you can't be around all the time ,  your children want to feel you're always interested in them . 
Be Firm but Consistent . 
Firmness does not mean having to be aggressive . 
It means making sure your views and feelings are known and that you want your child to respect them . 
Be consistent as well  -  don't keeping changing your mind ,  or making threats that you don't carry out . 
If you are consistent ,  you can stop your children saying that you are  " being unfair "  . 
If they do say it ,  it won't be true ! 
If you set your stall out ,  your children know what's on offer and what to expect . 
Do Things Together
Spending time with your children and talking to them are important . 
But it's also worth planning things you can do together regularly . 
It doesn't have to be anything special ;   it could be a trip to the cinema ,  a visit to a football match ,  or even just watching television together . 
It's vital for children to have interests which give them an alternative to using drugs . 
Encourage these interests ,  and you will have done something very important for your child . 
Make Friends with Their Friends
Usually a child trying drugs for the first time will do it with a group of friend . 
Friends can have a lot of influence on what your child does . 
Your child can feel under a lot of pressure to go along with the crowd . 
Make sure that you know and meet your children's friends  -  even if they are not the ones you would have chosen for your child . 
Invite them home . 
Let them have somewhere they can be together . 
That way ,  you can still have some influence over what they do . 
Remember Your Child Is Unique
All children have strengths ,  and they all need to feel valued and good about themselves . 
Sometimes those strengths can be hard to find ,  but they do exist . 
You can help your child develop and build on them . 
When they feel they can achieve something ,  and that you recognise what they've done ,  it helps to build their self - esteem . 
In turn ,  this makes them want to do more constructive things than use drugs . 
Set an example
Alcohol ,  tobacco and medicines are all substances which many people use . 
Use of any of them can cause problems ,  such as alcohol dependency . 
Of course ,  all these substances are quite legal ,  but the way you use them is an example to your children . 
It gives them signals about how you regard drugs . 
What Not to Say
There are a few pitfalls to avoid . 
Don't bully your children  -  no one reacts well to bullies
Don't lecture  -  remember how it felt to be lectured at ? 
Don't preach  -  being  " holier than thou "  does not help a child who need help ! 
Don't try to scare your children with shock horror stories . 
It doesn't work  -  and to someone who uses drugs and has experienced their effects ,  it will be unbelievable . 
If Your Child Is Already Using Drugs 
If you find out your child is using drugs or solvents ,  stay calm and don't panic . 
Stop and think before you do anything : 
What can you do that will help your child most ? 
Have you got the facts right ? 
How can you keep the communication lines open ? 
Is their drug - taking a repeated pattern ,  or was it a one - off  " experiment "  ?  
If it is one - off you may need to simply to talk to them . 
Be firm ,  consistent and caring ,  but disapproving . 
Give your child some reasons for rejecting the misuse of drugs :  
that it's illegal and could lead to trouble with the police ;  
that drug taking could affect their health now and in the future . 
The key is to try and discover why your child has used drugs . 
Once you know this you can try to tackle the cause rather than the symptoms . 
If your child's health or behaviour shows that they are taking drugs regularly ,  you must take further action . 
Bear the points above in mind . 
Don't lose heart ,  because there is still a lot you can do . 
Pledge your support
Your support for your child is vital whatever the circumstances . 
You can build your relationship with them and show that you lave and care for them . 
Reassure Them
Reassured children find it easier to bear the pressure as they try and come to terms with what they are doing . 
But don't try to argue away the consequences of their actions . 
Show  -  and Say  -  You Care ! 
Children need to feel valued and cared for even when they've done something that they know you will disapprove of . 
 " I may not like what you've done ,  but I still love you "  is the message they need to hear and believe . 
Get Help for You and Your Child 
Your child may need more help than you can provide . 
Think about people you know who might be able to help . 
There are many agencies and groups who will also be willing and able to support you . 
There is more information about these at the end of this leaflet . 
Look after yourself as well . 
You will need support if you are to be able to give the best you can to your child . 
Ask for help from family and friends ,  and professionals if necessary . 
Look for Gradual Change
If your child is taking drugs regularly they are not likely to stop suddenly . 
Any improvement may be gradual ,  with ,  perhaps ,  some slip ups on the way . 
So you will need to be realistic . 
It's not your fault ! 
Young people don't always take drugs because they have deep personal problems or to show how they reject your way of life . 
It is usually a passing phase . 
Repeated drug taking can have serious results . 
But it's your job to help your child deal with the problem  -  not to try to put the blame for it on yourself or others . 
How Do You Know If Your Child Is Using Drugs ? 
It's not easy to tell ,  particularly when a child first takes drugs or only takes them occasionally . 
Many of the signs are like those of growing up . 
Be sure of your facts before you do anything . 
It's important not to jump to conclusions if you notice any of the following things : 
sudden changes of mood from happy and alert to sullen and moody ;  
unusual irritability or aggression ;  
loss of appetite ;  
loss of interest in hobbies ,  sport ,  schoolwork or friends ;   
bouts of drowsiness or sleepiness ;   
increased evidence of telling lies or furtive behaviour ;  
unexplained loss of money or belongings from the home ;  
unusual smells ,  stains or marks on the body or clothes ,  or around the house ;  
unusual powders ,  tablets ,  capsules ,  scorched tinfoil or  ( more rarely nowadays )  needles or syringes . 
What about the Law ? 
Most parents are aware that their sons or daughters might be fines or imprisoned for possessing or supplying illegal drugs . 
 ( Using solvents is not illegal  -  however ,  there are offences related to selling them to minors ,  ) 
But it is possible to break the law ,  even without touching drugs . 
Just allowing anyone on your  " premises "  to produce or to supply illegal drugs to another person is an offence . 
So if you know that your child is sharing illegal drugs with a friend in your house ,  but do nothing to stop it ,  you are committing an offence . 
If You Find Drugs . 
If you find what you think is an illegal drug ,  you have a legal duty either to hand it to the police or destroy it to prevent another person committing an offence with the drug . 
Do You Have to Tell the Police ?  
You do not have to tell the police if you suspect your children  ( or anyone else )  are taking or supplying illegal drugs . 
Where Can Parents Get Help ? 
If you feel you need help from specialists ,  but don't know where to start ,  contact SCODA  ( the Standing Conference on Drug Abuse )  at Waterbridge House ,  32 - 36 Loman Street ,  London SE1 0EE 071 - 928 - 9500 . 
There is also a dial and listen service for details of drug agencies  -  dial 100 and ask for Freephone Ddug Problems . 
The Institute for the Study of Drug Dependence ISDD has information on research about solvents and other drugs . 
Address as SCODA 071 - 928 - 1211 . 
Re - Solv  ( the Society for the Prevention of Solvent and Volatile Substance Abuse )  deals solely with solvent misuse . 
They publish leaflets ,  booklets and videos and know about local agencies who can help . 
Their address is 30A High Street ,  Stone ,  Staffs ST15 8AW  ( 0785 817885 ) 
Day Projects ,  Information and Advisory Services
Parents or drug users can phone or visit  ( usually by appointment only )  for advice on drugs or associated problems  ( housing ,  legal ,  etc )  ,  counselling ,  and referral to other services such as hospital clinics or rehabilitation houses . 
For most parents this kind of project will be the only drug agency they approach ,  either as a way into treatment or because they provide sufficient advice and support to enable the family to cope . 
Release runs a national 24 - hour emergency telephone service on 071 - 603 - 8654 ,  particularly useful if someone has been arrested for a drug offence . 
It also has a drug advice line ,  telephone 071 - 729 - 9904 during normal office hours ,  071 - 603 - 8654 at other times . 
Support Services for Families of Drug Users
ADFAM National is the charity for the families and friends of drug users . 
It provides a National Helpline offering information and confidential support  ( 071 - 405 - 3923 )  . 
Families Anonymous is a self - help support group for parents of drug users ,  and has branches in various parts of the country . 
Phone 071 - 498 - 4680 for further details . 
Hospital Clinics
There is an established network of hospital clinics for the treatment of  ( mainly )  heroin addiction . 
However ,  most clinics are only geared to dealing with users of opiate - type drugs ,  and are not suitable for help with most other drug problems . 
Community Drug Teams
In various parts of the country ,  teams have been set up comprising ,  for example ,  a social worker ,  a community psychiatric nurse ,  a drugs worker and other professionals . 
Anybody can make a referral  ( family doctor ,  etc )  or users can go themselves . 
Contact SCODA for more details . 
Residential Services are usually for serious long - standing drug problems . 
Contact SCODA for more details
In Scotland contact :  Scottish Drugs Forum ,  5 Oswald Street ,  Glasgow G1 4QR  ( 041 - 221 1175 )  ,  and in Wales contact :  Welsh Office Drugs Unit ,  Welsh Office ,  Cathays Park ,  Cardiff CF1 3NQ  ( 0222 825111 )  . 
In addition to this booklet ,  the Department of Health has other free publications : 
Drugs :  A Parent's Guide and Solvents :  A Parent's Guide give the facts about drugs and solvents
Drug and Solvent Misuse :  A Basic Briefing provides further important information for parents and professionals . 
If you would like reading material for your child ,  Drugs and Solvents :  A Young Person's Guide is suitable for children ages between eight and twelve . 
Drugs and Solvents :  Things You Should Know is for young people aged between thirteen and eighteen . 
Copies of these booklets are available free from :  BAPS ,  Health Publications Unit ,  DSS Distribution Centre ,  Heywood Stores ,  Manchester Road ,  Heywood ,  Lancs OL10 2PZ ;  or phone free on 0800 555 777 . 
You have vital part to play in preventing your child from using illegal drugs and solvents ,  or in helping them to stop if they are already involved . 
You have a responsibility to do something  -  and you can make a difference . 
So ,  talk to your child  -  before someone else does . 
Services for people with drugs problems
Lots of services are available for those who need help with drugs problems .  . 
Local Authority and Health Services . 
There are three teams of qualified people ,  trained to handle problems with drugs along with H . I . V .  and AIDS . 
They provide proper information to people with drugs problems . 
Besides this they provide a needle - replacement service . 
North Manchester Drugs Team
Central Manchester Community Drugs Team
Acorn House
Denmark Road
Manchester M15 6FG
Phone 273 4614 / 274 4289
South Manchester Community Drugs Team
Sharsthon Community Centre
Fenside Road
 Sharston
Vidhishaw
Rehabiliation Services
If you think you need rehabilitation ,  please contact the Local Community Drug Team  ( as mentioned above )  . 
They will give you assessment of your needs  ( for this please refer to the book  " How to obtain help from social services "  )  . 
You contact this department if you need help in paying for your placement . 
Lifeline
Addicts are instructed to come personally for the counselling  ( particularly for yougn people with drugs problems and their family members )  . Drugs are not provided in this service ;  as well as counselling ,  used needles can be exchanged here . 
Lifeline Manchester
101  -  103 Oldham Street
Manchester M4 1LW : 
Phone :  839 2054
DASH
This is a self - introductory service ,  which counsels to the humes and to drug users and their famalies in the contagious places . 
They also provide a needle - replacement service . 
Contact :  DASH ,  The Zion Institute ,  Zion Crescent ,  Hulme ,  Manchester . 
Mainline
This is the road moving project that provides services of Self Help Support Group and needle replacement . 
This project is based on Moss Side . 
Contact :  Mainline ,  PO Box 72 ,  Manchester ,  M15 5NW ,  Tel :  2279299
 ( New Start Project ) 
This is a self - introductory project especially for young people who use drugs in Wythenshawe . 
Contact :  New Start Project Sharston Community Centre ,  Fenside Road  ,  Sharston ,  Manchester .  Tel :  491 5455
 ( George House ) 
This is a self - introductory project that provides services related to AIDS
Contact :  George House ,  PO Box 201 ,  Manchester ,  M60 1PU ,  Tel :  839 2442
Trin Quiliezetor Support Group
Contact :  Brownley Road Social Centre ,  Wythenshawe Tel :  988 7146  ( 7pm - 9pm ) 
EYE SIGHT TESTS are free for some people find out if you qualify
See your optician for further details . 
Do you see the road signs as clearly as you used to ? 
Do your arms get longerevery time you read a newspaper ? 
You may need your eye tested . 
Most people's eye change as they get older . 
Many who have never worn glasses may find they to need them for reading or watching television . 
An eye sight test is also a health check - up . 
An optician can tell a lot just by lookng into your eyes . 
Diseases such as glaucoma  ( which can lead to blindness )  and diabetes can be detected at an early stage ,  so that action can be taken to prevent them getting worse . 
Look at the list below . 
If you belong to one of these groups ,  contact your local optician now and ask for a free NHS sight test . 
 ( He or she knows all about it and will help you with any queries ,  ) 
How do you qualify for a free NHS test ? 
If you have a low income . 
If you or parner get income support or family credit . 
If you are under 16 or a full - time student under 19 . 
If you are registered blind or partially sighted . 
If you are diagoned diabetic or are suffering from glaucoma . 
If you are over 40 years of age and the parent ,  brother ,  sister or child of a person with diagnosed glaucoma . 
If you need certain very strong lenses . 
If you are entitled to a free NHS sight test but have dIfficulty getting out and about ,  tell your optician  -  you may be able to have a test in your own home . 
Further details of eligibility are contained in leaflet G 11  ( available from opticians ,  family doctors ,  Social Security offices and hospitals )  . 
More information on glaucoma is available in leaflet GLAUC 1  ( available from hospitals )  . 
DH Department of Health
How to get help in looking after someone
A Carers guide to a carers assessment
If you look after a relative ,  disabled child or friend and caring has a major impact in your life then a carer's assessment could help you . 
1 .  You are a  " carer "  if you look after a relative ,  friend or disabled child who needs support to live at home . 
Your local council Social Services Department may be able to help to make things easier for you . 
2 .  They can provide services to the person you care for . 
They can also provide services for you . 
3 .  To work out what services would be helpful in your situation ,  social services need to discuss
The help the person you care for needs
The help you are giving at the moment
The services your council may provide . 
The way this is done is called an  " assessment " 
4 .  You as a carer may be involved in several ways : 
If you care for a disabled child your needs will be considered as part of an assessment of needs of your child and family
If you care for an adult you can have a carers assessment to discuss the help that you need . 
This can happen even if the person you care for refuses help . 
You should also be able to contribute to the discussion of the needs of the person you care for  ( their Community Care assessment )  . 
5 .  What your assessment is for 
Your carer's assessment is your opportunity to tell social services about the things that could make caring easier for you . 
Some things you may want to think about : 
Do you get enough sleep ? 
Is your health affected in other ways ? 
Are you able to get out and about ? 
Do you get any time for yourself ? 
Are your other relationships affected ? 
Do you want information about benefits ? 
Are you worried you may have to give up work ? 
Is the person you care for getting enough help ? 
6 .  What sort of services might help you : 
services that give you a break
emotional support from other carers or people who understand
help with household tasks
help with caring tasks during the day / night
benefits advice
activities for the person you care for
However ,  all carers are individuals and your local council may provide any service to you that they think will help you care or help you maintain your wellbeing . 
So you may have some ideas of your own about services that would help you that you want to talk through with social services . 
Other services that you might want to discuss with them are those that may help the person you look after . 
Other things you may want social services to tell you about : 
Local or national support organisations you could contact
Other help you could get
Any charges for services
What to do if you wish to complain
Contacting social services to ask for an assessment . 
The telephone number of your local council social services department will be found in your local telephone directory under local authority and then community information ,  or speak to your own GP . 
Other useful contacts for carers
Carers National Association
0808 808 7777
 ( CNA ) 
www . carers . uk . demon . co . uk
Contact a Family
020 7383 3555
www . cafamily . org . uk
Crossroads caring for carers
01788 573653
www . crossroads . org . uk
Princess Royal Trust for Carers  ( PRTC ) 
020 7480 7788
www . carers . org
Your local social services department will tell you about other local organisations . 
The Department of Health carers web site may be found at www . carers . gov . uk
Help with NHS costs
If your income is low or insufficient then you and your family can get facilities such as : 
NHS prescriptions
NHS dental treatment
NHS eye testes and vouchers for glasses
NHS hospital travel costs
getting an artificial wig or fabric supports on the NHS
Help with NHS costs
If you are already getting a grant or help through the NHS ,  then you are already eligible to get further support ,  you do not need to register with any agency or contractor and you are not bound to show any certificate to anybody else . 
If you are getting a war pension then it is possible to get the financial support for your treatment through NHS . 
This is applicable when you are in need of proper treatment due to a disability and for the same reason you are getting war pension . 
To check your eligibility or rights get leaflet AB11 . 
If you are listed in such a group where you can get free facilities ,  then you are already eligible to get the free facilities . 
To check whether you are listed in such a group or not ,  and whether you are eligible to get the free facilities or not ,  get leaflet AB11 . 
It doesn't matter if your income is more than income support ,  you are eligible to get financial support to pay NHS fees but if your savings are more than   £8000 then you would not able to get any financial support to pay NHS fees . 
To know that which type of drink you can take ,  send form AG1 to this address
Health Benefits Unit
Department of Health
Sandyford House
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE2 1DB
Claiming back fees
If you have already paid the cost of transportation to hospital and you want to get back the money you paid earlier then contact the social security office of your local authorities and ask for form AG5  ( if you want to get the form on the basis of your income then ask for form AG1 as well )  . 
After filling in both forms send them in to the address given above . 
Don't forget to enclose the recipt as evidence of your expenses . 
Be aware that you have to claim for expenses within a month from the date of the receipt . 
To get back money which you have spent on glasses or lenses
If you pay for your lenses from your own pocket ,  and you didn't get a prescription from the hospital eye service ,  then you are not eligible to apply for a voucher for free glasses or lenses  ( it does not matter if you are eligible for that voucher or not ,  except that you cannot apply for the same )  . 
Therefore check first that the department of social security has decided on your claim in your favour and you must have a letter confirming all this before purchasing lenses or glasses . 
Leaflets and where you can get them
for extra details ,  get one or more fo the following leaflets
AB11 Help with NHS costs
P11 NHS prescriptions
D11 NHS dental treatment
G11 NHS sight tests and vouchers for glasses
H11 NHS hospital travel costs
WF11 NHS wigs and fabric supports
Choosing Residential and Nursing Home Care
There have been changes since April 1993 in the financial management of social care . 
The social security department used to pay for nursing in residential homes but now this comes under the department of social services of the city council ,  which is responsible for nursing and all arrangements for nursing . 
Some facilities they will provide themselves and others they will fulfil it through private agencies or organisations ,  or they will purchase these facilities . 
They offer the most choices for the facilities and for the people . 
The main object of this change is to ensure that all possible help reaches those who actually need it . 
And people will get the facilitiesa and services they want . 
If you need financial support for a nursing or residential home then contact the department of social services . 
After proper investigation they will decide whetheryou are in need of a residential home or nursing home ,  if you cannot live in your own home any more . 
They can better suggest to you social services or a district nurse or various facilities . 
Eligibility for nursing and residential homes
To be eligible for a residential home you must need continous care and nursing which runs continously or regularly or at regular intervals . 
Choosing a home
The city council has made an accepted list . 
On this list all homes must follow the following rules : 
they must be registered under the residential homes act 1983
they must be financially stable
there must be clear health and safety guidelines
they fulfil all the agreements and requirements set by the city council
It may be that you get an appropriate home but it is not necessary to select one of them . 
If the home is not on the accepted list
You may go to one of those homes that are not listed on this accepted list . 
These places must follow the guidelines imposed by the city council and it must be suitable for your needs . 
These homes are always ready to follow the rules of the city council . 
Generally the city council pays for these facilities if not expensive ,  then others ,  then the following
It is in the United Kingdom . 
How much you have to pay
 If you are selected for care in a nursing home or residential home you will have to go through a financial assessment . 
If your savings are more than   £8000 pound ,  you are expected to pay the fee . 
If your savings are from   £3000 to   £8000 then you are expected to pay a part of the fee ,  although there will be relaxation in some special cases . 
If you have savings of less than   £3000 and you don't have any other assets or property then you are probably eligible for some allowances . 
The amount will be directly paid off your nursing . 
You will be eligible to keep some amount for your personal expenses  ( personal allowences payment )  which is now   £12 . 65 . 
If you choose a nursing home or residential home which is more expensive in the opinion of department of social services ,  you must assure them the extra payment or give a guarantee that you or your friend or your family will pay the payment above than expectation of the department of social services . 
Living in residential care for a short period
A residential home or nursing home may be temporarily selected for nursing .  
 for example if your carers are in need of some rest due to illness or an accident . 
The city council take some charges for these services but you may ask for extra allownces for this nursing . 
Contact your local services office to get the more details about residential and nursing homes . 
Their addresses and phone numbers are listed on the next page . 
A better deal for tenants
Your New Right to Repair
Your Right to Repair
As part of the Citizen's Charter scheme ,  a new Right to Repair scheme was introduced for council tenants from 1 April 1994 . 
The new Right to Repair is a scheme for council tenants .  It will make sure that certain small urgent repairs which might affect your health ,  safety or security ,  are done quickly and easily . 
Councils will be told by law to carry out these repairs within a certain time . 
If the council doesn't do your repair in time ,  you can tell it to get another contractor instead . 
If the second contractor doesn't do the repair in time ,  the council will pay you compensation . 
The council will tell you what repairs come under the new scheme and how long it has to carry them out . 
Repair times vary depending on the type of repair . 
For example ,  if your toilet isn't flushing ,  the council usually has one working day to come and repair it .  It has three working days to mend a loose bannister rail and seven working days to mend a broken extractor fan in your bathroom or kitchen . 
What repairs can you get done ? 
You can get certain small urgent repairs done  ( up to the value of   £250 )  if they are likely to affect your health ,  safety or security . 
These are called qualifying repairs . 
Qualifying repairs include : 
unsafe power or lighting sockets or electrical fittings ; 
blocked flue to open fire or boiler ; 
leaking roof ; 
toilets which don't flush ; 
blocked sink ,  bath or basin ; 
leaking from a water or heating pipe ,  tank or cistern ; 
loose or broken bannisters or handrails . 
Your council will have a full list of repairs which come under the scheme .  It will be able to tell you if a repair you need is included in the scheme and how long it has to get the repair done . 
The council will also be able to tell you how it deals with repairs which aren't covered under this scheme . 
How can you get your repairs done ? 
You should tell the council what repairs need to be done . 
The council may need to send someone to your home to check the problem first . 
If the repair comes under the Right to Repair scheme ,  the council will tell a contractor to do it in the set time .  The council will also send you a copy of the repair notice it sends to the contractor . 
The notice will show you : 
the name ,  address and telephone number of the contractor who will do the repair ; 
the arrangements made for the contractor to do the repair  ( the date and time )  ; 
what the repair is ;  and
when the repair should be done by . 
You must let the council know when someone can be at home to let the contractor in . 
How long has the council got to carry out these repairs ? 
This depends on the type of repair you need ,  but the council can always tell you how long it should take . 
Qualifying repair times are set by law  -  not the council . 
What happens if the first contractor doesn't do your repair in time ? 
If the first contractor doesn't do your repair in time ,  you should phone the council and tell them to get a second contractor to carry out the work . 
Unless there is a good reason why the work hasn't been done ,  the council will get a second contractor . 
You will get a copy of the second repair notice  -  which the council sends to the second contractor . 
The second contractor then has the same amount of time to do the repair as the first one had . 
Compensation
If the second contractor doesn't do your repair in time ,  you will get   £10 in compensation . 
For every extra day you wait ,  you will get another   £2 . 
The most compensation you can get for any one job is   £50 . 
The council will pay your compensation  -  unless you already owe it some money . 
If you do owe money to the council ,  it will take away the amount you owe from your compensation . 
Sometimes there may be a good reason why a repair can't be done .  For example ,  if you didn't keep your appointment to let the contractor in ,  and they therefore couldn't carry out the repair ,  the council won't have to pay you any compensation . 
How to find out more
Contact your council's housing department . 
This leaflet is one of a series of three dealing with the new tenants' rights  ( Your New Right to Manage ,  Your New Right to Repair ,  and Your New Right to Compensation for Improvements . 
For further copies please write to : 
Department of the Environment
These leaflets are free and also available in Welsh ,  Bengali ,  Hindi ,  Urdu ,  Greek and Vietnamese . 
Victims of Crime
This leaflet explains what will happen now you have reported a crime to the police . 
It tells you : 
How the crime will be investigated and what will happen if you have to go to court ; 
How you may be able to get compensation if you have been injured or if your property has been stolen or damaged ; 
How the police can help you ; 
What other help and advice is available . 
THE POLICE
If you need to talk to the police about the crime ,  you should contact the officer dealing with your case or ,  where there is one ,  the crime desk . 
The contact details are : 
Police Force : 
Police Station : 
Telephone Number : 
Name of officer dealing with your case : 
Rank and Number : 
Crime Reference Number : 
Telephone number of crime desk  ( where relevant )  : 
Whenever you report a crime to the police ,  they make enquiries to try to solve it . 
Wherever possible you should : 
give them as much information as you can about the offence ; 
tell them if you are worried about your  ( or your family's )  safety so they can give you appropriate advice . 
If ,  for instance ,  you are worried about the suspect being granted bail ,  they will tell the Crown Prosecution Service of your concern ; 
tell the police if you change your address or telephone number so that they can tell you if someone has been arrested ,  charged or cautioned in connection with the offence ; 
tell them of any other changes :  for example ,  you may have noticed further losses or damage since you first reported the offence ,  or you may be suffering further effects from an injury caused by the crime ; 
tell them if the offence was made worse by racial abuse or hatred directed at you . 
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT ? 
The police will try to catch the criminal ,  but they may not always succeed . 
Even if they do have a suspect ,  there may not be enough evidence to charge the person or ,  if the suspect is young or mentally disordered ,  and the offence is not too serious ,  the police may decide to caution him or her instead . 
In some cases the suspect may be facing more serious charges for other offences and may be prosecuted for those offences instead . 
If the police decide to charge someone ,  the case is taken over by the Crown Prosecution Service  ( CPS )  ,  an independent authority ,  which prosecutes in the name of the Queen . 
They decide whether there is enough evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction . 
This means they must be satisfied that it is more likely than not that the person accused will be convicted of the charge . 
They must then consider whether a prosecution would be in the public interest . 
This means taking into account other factors ,  apart from the evidence ,  when deciding whether or not to prosecute . 
For example ,  it may not be necessary to prosecute an elderly person for shoplifting if the item stolen is of very small value . 
The CPS do not act directly on behalf of individual victims or represent them in criminal proceedings ,  but they do carefully consider the interests of victims when deciding where the public interest lies . 
THE PRESS
The press can play an important role in tackling crime . 
For the purposes of investigating an offence ,  catching criminals or for crime prevention ,  the police may release details of a case to the press . 
But if you are concerned about the release of case details ,  tell the police officer dealing with your case . 
GOING TO COURT
The majority of cases that reach court are dealt with by magistrates' courts . 
The most serious cases have to be sent to the Crown Court . 
If your case goes to court and you are needed as a witness : 
You will be sent a copy of the leaflet 'Witness in Court' which will explain what is likely to happen . 
You should let the police know if there are any days when it would be difficult for you to attend court . 
If possible ,  these dates will then be avoided . 
But there may be times when the case has to go ahead even though this may not be convenient for individual witnesses . 
If you are called to give evidence and are unable to give it in English ,  arrangements will be made to provide an interpreter . 
If you are not needed as a witness ,  the police will try to tell you about hearing dates . 
There could be several such dates if ,  for example ,  cases are delayed or postponed . 
They will also try to tell you about the result of the case . 
COMPENSATION
If you have been injured or your property has been damaged or stolen as a result of a crime ,  compensation may be available in some cases . 
If you think you may qualify : 
Write Down
Any extra expenses that you have had as a result of the offence ,  for example medical expenses or the cost of repairing or replacing your property . 
Any loss of earnings you have suffered . 
Any income you have received as a result of the offence  ( for example Social Security benefits )  . 
Keep
Any receipts ,  estimates or other documents about any of these things . 
Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme
If you have been injured because of a crime of violence you can apply for a payment under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme . 
The responsibility for making a claim is yours . 
It does not matter whether the offender has been caught ,  but there are other rules which determine whether or not you receive any money . 
You can find out more from the leaflet 'Victims of Crimes of Violence ,  a guide to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme' . 
You can get this from the police ,  from Victim Support Schemes ,  your Citizens Advice Bureau or from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ,  Tay House ,  300 Bath Street ,  Glasgow ,  G2 4JR  ( Telephone 0800 358 3601 )  . 
Compensation from the Offender
If someone is convicted ,  the criminal court may order the offender to pay you compensation for any injury ,  loss or damage which you have suffered because of the offence . 
Unlike a claim under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme  ( see previous section )  you cannot apply for a compensation order yourself . 
It is therefore important that you tell the police if you would like to receive compensation . 
They will give you a form on which you should give accurate details of your losses . 
This should be supported by documentary evidence  ( e.g.  receipts )  where possible . 
The police will then pass this information to the Crown Prosecution Service who will make sure that the court knows about it . 
You can be compensated for personal injury ;  losses because of theft of ,  or damage to ,  property ;  losses because of fraud ;  loss of earnings while off work ;  medical expenses ;  travelling expenses ;  pain and suffering ;  loss ,  damage or injury caused to or by a stolen vehicle . 
The dependants of a victim who has died  ( other than as the result of a road traffic incident )  may also receive compensation  ( for example ,  through the courts or from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme  -  see previous section )  . 
The Role of the Court
The court has to consider compensation in every appropriate case and decide whether to order an offender to pay compensation and ,  if so ,  how much . 
The court must take account of the offender's circumstances and ability to pay . 
So if the court does decide to make an order ,  it may not be for the full amount of your loss . 
If the court decides to make an order against the offender ,  he or she will be required to pay the money to the court ,  which will pass it on to you . 
If the offender has enough money ,  the compensation will normally be paid in a lump sum . 
In most cases ,  however ,  the court will allow time for the offender to pay ,  or may allow the offender to pay by instalments . 
It is the job of the court to make sure that the offender pays the compensation . 
So if you have any questions about the compensation order or the way it will be paid to you ,  you should contact the clerk of the court . 
Do not contact the offender direct . 
Civil Proceedings
Whether or not the offender is convicted in the criminal courts ,  you can sue him or her for damages in a civil court . 
You can find out more about this at your Citizens Advice Bureau or by asking a solicitor . 
Motor Insurers' Bureau
If you suffer injury ,  loss or damage to property as a result of a road traffic incident involving a motor vehicle ,  compensation will normally be payable under insurance arrangements . 
Where the offender is uninsured ,  compensation for personal injury and damage to property may be available from the Motor Insurers' Bureau . 
Where the offender has not been traced ,  compensation for personal injury only may be available . 
To claim ,  you should contact the Motor Insurers' Bureau at 152 Silbury Boulevard ,  Central Milton Keynes ,  MK9 1NG . 
 ( Telephone :  01908 830001 )  . 
You can get further advice from the leaflet 'Victims of Uninsured and Untraced Drivers' which is available from the Department of Transport ,  Local Government and the Regions ,  Road Safety Division ,  Zone 2 / 14 ,  Great Minster House ,  76 Marsham Street ,  London SW1P 4DR . 
If you should succeed in getting compensation in two or more ways ,  for example from a criminal court and through the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme or the Motor Insurers' Bureau ,  the award may be reduced to avoid double payment . 
You can't get compensation twice for the same thing from public funds . 
CHECK LIST FOR ACTION
If you report a crime to the police you can expect : 
the police to investigate the crime ; 
to be contacted by Victim Support ,  unlessyou ask the police not to pass on your details1 ; 
 ; to be told by the police if someone is charged with ,  or cautioned for ,  the offence ; 
to be told  ( if you ask to be )  by the police or the Crown Prosecution Service if the charge is later dropped or altered ; 
if you are needed as a witness ,  to be given the 'Witness in Court' leaflet ,  told the date of the trial ,  and offered support by the Witness Service ; 
if the case goes to court ,  consideration to be given to making a compensation order in your favour ; 
to be told  ( if you ask to be )  the result of the court case ;  in the more serious cases , 
to be given advice about applying for compensation for personal injury from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ;  and
to be given crime prevention advice by the police if you ask for it . 
To help make this possible ,  you should report the crime to the police promptly ; 
give the police full details of your injury or loss ; 
tell the police if you want compensation ; 
tell the police if you fear for your  ( or your family's )  safety ; 
tell the police if you do not want the press to be informed ; 
tell the police if you do not want your name and contact details passed to Victim Support ; 
tell the police of any change of address while the case remains unresolved ;  and contact Victim Support direct if you want to . 
PROTECTING YOURSELF AGAINST CRIME
Unfortunately ,  some people who have been the victim of crime are more vulnerable ,  in the short term ,  to further crime . 
Whatever the circumstances which led to you becoming a victim of crime ,  it may be possible to take steps now to help reduce the risk of it happening again . 
The police can offer you free crime prevention advice ,  if you ask them . 
You may also find useful the Home Office crime prevention guide 'Your Practical Guide to Crime Prevention' . 
It gives details of simple precautions that you can take to protect yourself ,  your family and your property . 
Copies are available from your local police station . 
If there is a local Neighbourhood Watch Scheme ,  you may want to join it . 
If there is no scheme in your area ,  you might want to talk to your local crime prevention officer about starting one  -  there may be other people in your area who would be interested . 
PROTECTION FROM HARASSMENT
The Protection From Harassment Act 1997 made it a criminal offence to make another person fear that violence will be used against them . 
It also made it an offence to cause harassment to somebody ,  for example ,  by 'stalking' . 
Those who commit the more serious offence of making someone fear violence can receive a fine and / or up to five years imprisonment . 
Those who cause harassment can receive a fine and / or up to six years imprisonment . 
If you have suffered harassment or fear of violence and the offender has been caught and convicted ,  the criminal court can make a restraining order against the offender to stop the threats or harassment continuing . 
If the offender is convicted of breaching the restraining order he or she faces a penalty of up to five years in prison . 
You can also seek an injunction from a civil court to put a stop to harassment . 
Breach of an injunction is an arrestable criminal offence ,  which carries a maximum penalty of five years imprisonment and / or an unlimited fine . 
PROTECTION AGAINST ANTI - SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR
If someone's anti - social behaviour has been causing you harassment ,  alarm or distress ,  you can ask the police or local authority to apply to the magistrates' court for an Anti - Social Behaviour Order to stop this happening . 
You may not need to appear or be identified in court ,  because the court can ask to hear the evidence of a professional witness . 
This means that someone from the police or local authority can come out to see the behaviour for him or herself and give evidence on your behalf . 
The magistrates will decide if the grounds for an Order have been satisfied . 
An Anti - Social Behaviour Order lasts at least two years . 
An offender who disobeys an Order can face a penalty of up to five years imprisonment . 
PROTECTION AGAINST SEX OFFENDERS
If the behaviour of a known sex offender is causing concern in your community ,  the police can apply to the magistrates' court for a Sex Offender Order . 
This type of Order protects the public by prohibiting the defendant from doing specific things  ( e.g. lingering outside a school or in a playground )  . 
It lasts for at least five years . 
An offender who breaches the Order can face a penalty of up to five years imprisonment . 
REMEMBER
If you are not sure about anything mentioned in this leaflet ,  ask your local police for advice . 
Victim Support are also willing to help whenever they can . 
HELP FROM VICTIM SUPPORT SCHEMES
You may be feeling shocked ,  sad ,  distressed ,  or angry following the crime you have just reported . 
These feelings are common . 
Victim Support volunteers are specially trained to help you through this experience and to provide you with practical help and information . 
The police will normally tell Victim Support about all cases of burglary ,  theft ,  criminal damage ,  arson ,  assault  ( other than domestic violence )  ,  and racial harassment . 
If you do not want your name passed on as a victim of crime ,  tell the police officer dealing with your case . 
If you have suffered a sexual crime or domestic violence ,  you will be specifically asked if you wish to be referred to Victim Support . 
For any type of crime ,  you can also contact them yourself at a later date if you prefer . 
Because resources are limited ,  victims whose cars are stolen or vandalised will not normally be referred to Victim Support . 
If you need help ,  tell the police officer in your case or contact Victim Support direct . 
DETAILS ABOUT VICTIM SUPPORT
Your local Victim Support Scheme is : 
Or contact the Victim Supportline :  0845 30 30 900
Or ,  if you prefer ,  you can write to Victim Supportline at :  PO Box 11431 ,  London SW9 6ZH . 
Produced by Home Office Communication Directorate 1 / 2002 .  CC1 . 1M
Services for people with learning disabilities
Menchester Community Care
Services for people with learning disabilities
City Council Health Services and Volunteer and Private Organization provide special services to people with learning disabilities for their requirements . 
People with learning disabilities should also get every opportunity to take part in the social activities of the local community . 
How to get help
If you yourself or anyone you know has a learning disability and needs help ,  then contact your local social services department  ( addresses of these are given at the end of the leaflet )  . 
They will try their best to provide you with advice ,  proper information or assessment  ( estimation of assessment required )  for you  ( for this please see the leaflet  " How to get help from social services "  )  . 
If you think you only need help from a health or social services welfare committee ,  then contact that organisation directly . 
You will be asked different questions if you are eligible . 
Probably a proposal will be put for your care ,  in which any of the services mentioned below may be included .  
City Council and Health Services
Residence and Shelter
Manchester Social Services funds different types of residential services . 
There are 11 housing schemes like this where provision is made for 200 and more than 200 employees in these houses . 
Schemes to find houses for adults ,  who help those individuals who want to live with their family . 
This scheme has already started rendering short term help to affected people with learning disabilities and their carers . 
A short term facility is provided to the physically handicapped along with their carers in 5 houses in the city . 
In a house in South Manchester people with behavioural difficulties are given services . 
Children are sent back along with other families to their homes by the home scheme . 
Support Services
Nearby in North and Central Manchester ,  there is a team of a social worker ,  manager ,  specialist carers and management employees . 
There is a support team in every district ,  where a manager ,  nurses ,  occupational therapist ,  physiotherapist ,  speech and language therapist  ( doctors that help with speech )  ,  psychiatrist and management employees work . 
Although based in different places the Health and Social department employees work together . 
Contacts : 
Central Manchester
Community Support Support Team
Ross Place
Aked Close
Manchester M12 4AN
273 5412
North Manchester Community Support Team
Ardwick Resource Centre
Beech Mount ,  Hapurhey
Manchester M9 1XU
205 1364 / 4926
Health and Social Services employees jointly provide services from the same office in South Manchester . 
Leaflets with more detailed informaiton on these sevices are available . 
For these please contact Wythenshaw District Office  ( addresses and phone numbers are given at the end of this leaflet )  . 
Day Services 
There are five day centres in thecity ,  which provide various services for recreation and getting together . 
Day services are available at Harprey and Fallowfield / Rushholmes . 
The Education Department has six schools for people with learning disabilities . 
The Education Department runs various courses for people with learning disabilities . 
The Department of Social Services directs the employment opportunities for the people with learning disabilities . 
Self - help Organizations
Self - help Organizations provide services for people with learning disabilities in the areas such as cooperation in housing ,  recreation and daytime activities ,  self - advocacy groups and sports group for parents are included . 
To obtain any kind of information related to these services please contact or ringyour local social services office ,  whose addresses and the telephone numbers are given at the end of this leaflet . 
Unhappy with Social Services ? 
If you are not satisfied with the service we are providing ,  let us know about it . 
If you've had anything to do with the Social Services we hope that you've been satisfied with the service you received . 
But we know we're not perfect ,  and if you're not happy with what Social Services has done ,  you've got the right to complain about it . 
All kinds of things can go wrong . 
You could have felt a member of staff was rude to you . 
Or you might have been refused a service you feel you are entitled to . 
Obviously we do our best to avoid such problems . 
But where they do crop up ,  we want to know about them . 
And ,  above all ,  the City Council believes that you must have the right to complain ,  and to have your complaint investigated fully ,  fairly and impartially . 
In most cases ,  your complaint can probably be handled by the member of staff you've been dealing with . 
But if it isn't ,  or if you don't feel you can complain to that person for instance ,  if you want to complain about their behaviour  -  there is a formal complaints procedure which you can use . 
How does it work ? 
You make your complaint direct to the Complaints Receiving Officer ,  who is also a senior member of staff in the Social Services . 
So ,  if you want to complain you just write to :   Complaints Receiving Officer Social Services Directorate ,  26 Hatton Garden Liverpool L3 2AW . 
Or phone Peter Dowd or Denise Tipping direct on 225 3791 . 
Your complaint will then be dealt with :   
Quickly  -  -  -  there will be no undue delays . 
Fairly -  -  - therewill be no discrimination on grounds of sex ,  race ,  religion or sexual orientation . 
Confidentially  -  -  -  the minimum number of people will know about it . 
Impartially  -  -  -  the investigation will not be carried out by anyone directly involved . 
Any meetings will be arranged at a time to suit you ,  and if necessary you will be given help with transport . 
You will also be able to have documents and letters typed or brailled . 
If you want to be accompanied  -  by a friend or advocate then you can . 
The results of any investigation will be given to you in writing . 
We hope that this procedure will deal with all complaints satisfactorily . 
If you remain concerned you can have a review . 
This will be heard by a panel of two City Councillors and an Independent Person . 
The above rules and rights apply to the review too . 
If you're not happy even after a review you may be able to take your complaint to the Local Government Ombudsman or to the courts . 
A solicitor or the Citizens Advice Bureau will advise you on this . 
We hope this procedure is clear . 
If not ,  phone the Complaints Officer for further help ,  if necessary ,  leave a message and we'll get back to you . 
Remember ,  the phone number is 225 - 3791 . 
Making the Connections :  Transport and Social Exclusion
Summary
The problem and why it matters
1 .  Poor transport contributes to social exclusion in two ways . 
First ,  it restricts access to activities that enhance people's life chances ,  such as work ,  learning ,  health care ,  food shopping ,  and other key activities . 
2 .  Second ,  deprived communities suffer disproportionately from pedestrian deaths ,  pollution and the isolation which can result from living near busy roads . 
3 .  Poor transport is just one of a number of contributors to social exclusion . 
Many people experiencing social exclusion will not suffer from poor transport . 
However ,  poor transport can be an important factor in restricting access to opportunity . 
It can therefore undermine key government objectives on welfare to work ,  raising educational achievement and narrowing health inequalities ,  and has costs for individuals ,  businesses ,  communities and the state . 
Work
4 .  Transport can be a significant barrier to accessing work : 
Two out of five jobseekers say lack of transport is a barrier to getting a job . 
One in four jobseekers say that the cost of transport is a problem getting to interviews . 
One in four young people have not applied for a particular job in the last 12 months because of transport problems . 
One in 10 people in low - income areas have turned down a job in the last twelve months because of transport . 
Young people with driving licences are twice as likely to get jobs than those without . 
Learning
5 .  Poor transport is linked to young people dropping out of college : 
Sixteen -  to 18 - year - olds spend on average   £370 a year on transport . 
Forty - seven per cent of 16 -  to 18 - year - olds experience difficulty with this cost . 
Six per cent of 16 -  to 24 - year - olds turn down training or further education opportunities because of problems with transport . 
Health
6 .  For those who rely on public transport ,  getting to hospitals is particularly difficult ,  and can lead to missed health appointments : 
Thirty - one per cent of people without a car have difficulties travelling to their local hospital ,  compared to 17 per cent of people with a car . 
Seven per cent of people without cars say they have missed ,  turned down ,  or chosen not to seek medical help over the last 12 months because of transport problems ,  double the rate in the general population . 
Children from the lowest social class are five times more likely to die in road accidents than those from the highest social class . 
Sixteen per cent of people without cars find access to supermarkets hard ,  compared with six per cent of people with cars . 
Social ,  cultural and sporting activities
7 .  Poor transport can also affect people's participation in a range of other activities ,  including seeing friends and family ,  volunteering and caring ,  religious activities ,  exercise and cultural activities . 
Eighteen per cent of people without a car find seeing friends and family difficult because of transport ,  compared with eight per cent for car owners . 
People without cars are also twice as likely to find it difficult getting to leisure centres  ( nine per cent )  and libraries  ( seven per cent )  . 
What stops people getting to key places ? 
8 .  Nearly one in three households does not have access to a car . 
They depend primarily on walking to get around ,  but also on buses ,  lifts from family and friends and taxis . 
Cycling and rail make up a tiny fraction of their journeys . 
9 .  People can face three types of barriers to accessing work ,  learning ,  health care and other key activities : 
Access and availability :  People cannot get to key places in a reasonable time ,  reliably and safely . 
This may be due to poor network coverage ,  frequency ,  and reliability of public transport or a lack of accessible facilities . 
Only 20 per cent of buses and 10 per cent of trains meet new accessibility regulations under the Disability Discrimination Act . 
In addition people living in rural areas without a car face particularly acute problems due to longer walking distances to bus stops ,  and low service frequency . 
Cost :  People cannot afford personal or public transport . 
Bus fares have risen by nearly a third in the last fifteen years . 
Low - income households that do have a car spend nearly a quarter of their weekly household expenditure on motoring . 
Travel horizons :  People are unwilling to travel long journey times or distances ,  or may lack trust in ,  or familiarity with ,  transport services . 
The average distance to work for people on low incomes is three miles compared with eight for the general population . 
Jobseekers are typically not prepared to travel more than thirty minutes to a job . 
10 .  A large minority are therefore stuck in a vicious cycle . 
They experience poor transport as a consequence of social exclusion :  they cannot afford the costs of motoring or public transport fares ,  or they cannot drive because of age or disability . 
In deep rural areas ,  car ownership may be critical to access to basic services due to the absence of public transport . 
Causes
11 .  Over the past fifty years ,  the need to travel has become greater and more complex as society became organised around the car . 
People travel 42 per cent further than in 1975 . 
12 .  Rising car use has allowed most people to keep pace with the need to travel ,  but for people reliant on walking and public transport ,  there is an increasing mismatch between where they need to go and whether they can get there . 
13 .  Past policies have contributed to the problem . 
Policies encouraged greater car use and failed to arrest the decline of walking and buses  -  the two most important modes of transport for people on low incomes without cars . 
Transport policy focused on predicting and providing for traffic growth rather than managing demand . 
Tax and spending decisions and bus deregulation allowed bus fares to rise much faster than motoring costs . 
14 .  Planning policies enabled more dispersed patterns of development ,  such as out - of - town shopping ,  leisure and office developments . 
These have produced more scattered destinations and lower density housing ,  both of which have undermined the viability of buses ,  cycling and walking . 
While bus privatisation delivered some benefits ,  it ended the ability of local authorities to set bus fares ,  thereby preventing them from rising faster than motoring costs . 
Privatisation also created a less stable bus network subject to many small route changes and inhibited integrated ticketing policies . 
What can be done ? 
15 .  Chapter 4 describes a number of policy approaches and innovative schemes from the UK and overseas which offer the hope of real improvement . 
There are policy lessons to be learned relating to : 
Objectives and target setting :  Copenhagen has targets to reduce public transport journey times by 10 to 15 per cent ;  ensure walking distances to bus stops are no more than 400 metres ;  and ensure journeys outside the city centre are no more than 15 minutes longer than by car . 
Planning integration :  in many European countries there is a regional transport company which controls fare levels ,  network coverage and marketing and promotion across all modes of transport including trams ,  buses ,  car clubs ,  walking and cycling . 
Funding and performance management :  in many other EU countries ,  bus services receive up to 70 per cent of their running costs in subsidy ,  compared with 32 per cent in this country . 
In Helsinborg ,  Sweden ,  and in Copenhagen ,  bus funding is linked to performance measures and a customer survey of 25 , 000 passengers . 
16 .  Practical examples of what can be done include : 
Improving access and availability :  through a wider network of bus routes that 'orbit' a popular destination  ( rather than radial routes )  supported by feeder services that operate on a demand responsive basis into interchanges or specific employment locations ;  development and enforcement of bus priority measures ;  car clubs ;  and tackling crime and fear of crime walking to ,  waiting for ,  or travelling on public transport . 
Tackling the cost barriers :  through travel vouchers which allow passengers to use a subsidy on different modes of transport ;  subsidised vehicle loans or hire ;  paying for driving lessons conditional on participation in work ;  pay - as - you drive vehicle insurance . 
Widening Travel horizons :  through travel advice ,  personal travel plans ,  and better travel information . 
Reducing the need to travel :  through more proactive land - use planning policies ,  which promote appropriate developments in suitable places . 
This includes focusing shops ,  leisure facilities and offices in town centres and encouraging more efficient use of land . 
It also covers complementary policies which encourage outreach ,  home and virtual delivery of services . 
Reducing the disproportionate impact of traffic on deprived areas through targeted traffic calming measures and 20 - mph zones . 
What are the barriers to success ? 
Current policy
17 .  A range of improvements have been introduced in recent years . 
These include :  long term investment through local transport plans ,  bus priority measures through Quality Partnerships ,  urban and rural bus challenges ,  improved accessibility following the Disability Discrimination Act ,  and emerging developments in Transport Direct ,  a new nation - wide multi - modal travel enquiry and booking service . 
DVLR policy guidance has also placed increased emphasis on measures to improve accessibility and promote social inclusion . 
18 .  However ,  there are a number of critical barriers to progress including : 
Social costs have not been given due weight in transport policy : 
 The cost of poor access to work ,  learning and health care falls to a range of departments . 
Local transport targets are focused on reducing congestion and increasing bus use ,  not ensuring that people can access work ,  learning and health care . 
Nor do they target programmes to ensure some communities do not suffer disproportionately from the impact of traffic through pollution and child pedestrian accidents . 
Local transport planning :  Local authorities do not routinely assess whether people can get to work ,  learning ,  health care or other activities in a reasonable time or cost . 
Spending is not tied to outcomes such as improved journey times ,  accessible vehicles ,  punctuality or customer satisfaction . 
In rural areas ,  pockets of deprivation can be hidden by ward - level statistics . 
Revenue funding level :  Around   £1 billion is spent on revenue support for buses through concessionary fares ,  fuel duty rebate  ( FDR )  and subsidising unprofitable services . 
Spending has fallen by nearly a third since 1985 ,  while spending on subsidising unprofitable routes has fallen by almost two - thirds . 
This reflects falling operating costs during this period . 
However ,  tender costs are now rising sharply due to driver shortages and commercial operators withdrawing routes . 
Local authorities are struggling to maintain existing services ,  rather than trying to adapt services to more dispersed land use patterns and more flexible working hours . 
Since 1997 ,  Urban and Rural Bus Challenges have provided additional finance to address these problems . 
Funding equity :  Current transport spending is regressive . 
The majority of transport spending benefits people on higher incomes because they are more likely to use rail and travel longer distances . 
It is estimated that those in the lowest income quintile will gain 12 per cent of total spending in the 10 Year Transport Plan ,  while the highest quintile would gain 38 per cent . 
Fragmented funding :  while   £1 billion is spent by DTLR on bus revenue support ,  a further   £900 million is spent on school ,  patient and social services transport by several different Government departments . 
Funding sustainability :  funding is often available to local authorities and voluntary sector groups for innovative new transport schemes ,  but they often have great difficulty finding money to sustain the service ,  even when they are successful . 
Regulatory barriers :  Some potential solutions ,  including demand responsive transport ,  flexibly routed buses ,  wider use of community transport ,  integrated ticketing ,  Quality Contracts ,  and applying concessionary fares to wider client groups ,  are prevented because of regulatory barriers . 
Towards a more inclusive system
19 .  This report sets out some initial thoughts on potential improvements . 
Over the next few months ,  the SEU will be working with other departments to develop these in more detail . 
The ideas under consideration would be subject to spending review decisions . 
A final report in the autumn will provide further details . 
20 .  To ensure the social costs of poor transport are tackled effectively ,  policy needs to give due weight to the following objectives : 
To improve access to work ,  learning ,  health care ,  food shops and other key activities for people experiencing or at risk of social exclusion ;  and , 
To reduce the inequalities in pollution and child pedestrian accidents between deprived communities and the national average . 
21 .  Changes in three areas are required to achieve these objectives : 
a )  Mainstream transport
b )  Specific transport for pupils ,  patients ,  social services clients and jobseekers
c )  Reducing the need to travel
a )  Mainstream transport
22 .  Ideas under consideration include : 
Clearer accountability at a local level to improve access work ,  learning and health care ,  through accessibility and impact planning . 
Someone would need to be responsible for auditing whether people in each area can get to key places ,  and whether deprived communities suffer disproportionately from pollution and pedestrian deaths . 
Local targets could then be set to improve availability ,  affordability ,  service frequency ,  crime and fear of crime walking to ,  waiting for ,  or travelling on public transport ,  or other local problems . 
Better information and consultation would be needed to ensure pockets of deprivation ,  such as in rural areas ,  are addressed effectively . 
Flexibility to achieve these objectives ,  possibly including the removal of regulatory barriers to flexibly routed buses ,  integrated ticketing ,  the use of concessionary fares for people on low incomes ,  and reducing the notice period for the implementation of Quality Contracts . 
Resources that are distributed more equitably ,  are more joined up ,  better targeted ,  and linked to measurable outcomes defined under accessibility and impact planning . 
This should ensure that social exclusion objectives are given due weight alongside economic and environmental goals ,  including through transport appraisal mechanisms . 
Skills ,  expertise and knowledge :  local authorities need the skills to ensure transport services adapt to consumers' requirements ,  and a firmer evidence base on which to assess problems and develop solutions . 
b )  Specific transport
23 .  Key changes could include : 
Work :  A clearer deal between people seeking work and the state . 
This could include ensuring people can get to interviews and jobs in a reasonable time and cost through providing transport to or from out of town locations or for shift work ,  in return for a commitment to travel reasonable distances to work . 
The Government announced in the 2002 Budget that   £5 million per annum would be made available to fund transport solutions for jobseekers in the 63 areas covered by Action Teams for Jobs . 
Learning :  ensuring that transport routes are more sharply focused on schools ,  colleges and training providers ;  ensuring that the cost of transport to schools and colleges does not restrict access to education . 
Health care :  better advice on how to get to hospital through mainstream transport ;  greater publicity for the Hospital Travel Costs Scheme ;  greater choice over the timing of hospital appointments to fit in with travel needs ;  and a better integration of support available from non - emergency patient transport ,  the Hospital Travel Costs Scheme and the Social Fund . 
c )  Reducing the need to travel : 
24 .  Transport providers should factor in the needs of people experiencing or at risk of social exclusion in terms of access to work ,  learning ,  health care and other activities . 
Similarly ,  planners of new facilities need to factor in considerations of accessibility by public transport and walking and cycling to these activities and services . 
This applies not just to opening new facilities but equally to closures of existing facilities ,  including schools ,  hospitals ,  health centres ,  GP practices and other community facilities . 
Outreach and Information and Communication Technology  ( ICT )  can also be a cost - effective way of tackling access problems . 
25 .  Other changes could include ensuring that local planning authorities : 
actively identify and promote key sites for such facilities in accessible locations within a process which actively takes account of local consumers ;  and , 
encourage higher density development including housing to help create more viable public transport networks . 
Next Steps
26 .  This report shows that transport problems can be a significant barrier to social inclusion and sets out some initial thoughts on potential improvements . 
Over the next few months ,  the SEU will be working with other departments in Government and organisations outside of Government to develop these in more detail . 
We would welcome any comments on this report . 
They should be sent to : 
Transport Team
SEU
35 Great Smith Street
London SW1P 3BQ
Email :  transportandsocialexclusion @ cabinet - office . x . gsi . gov . uk
27 .  The ideas under consideration in this report are subject to spending review decisions . 
The SEU intends to publish a final report later in the year . 
The report will contain details on how policies will address the problems identified in this interim report . 