A person who has never had chickenpox may develop the disease two to three weeks (usually 13  to 17  days) after contact with someone who has the virus.
A person with chickenpox may have a fever and feel unwell for a day or two before the rash appears.
The rash usually starts as red spots on the head, neck and body and new spots continue to appear over the next five days.
Spots soon become blisters that are filled with fluid, within days, the blisters will dry up and form scabs.
The rash can be very itchy which can make children cranky and restless.
Most children usually have a mild illness, however adults can be very sick.
Chickenpox is spread through the air when someone with chickenpox coughs, sneezes or breathes.
Chickenpox can also be spread by touching the fluid from a chickenpoxblister.
Persons with chickenpox are infectious from one to two days before and up to five days after the onset of the rash.
In most situations, exclusion is not necessary as transmission of chickenpox has likely occurred before the rash develops.
Children with mild illness should be permitted to return to school when they feel well enough to participate in all activities, regardless of the state of the rash.
Children with chickenpox should be excluded as not to expose other groups (eg at a swimming pool) during the early stages of the rash, as they are still potentially infectious until the 6 th day of the rash or until all the lesions are crusted over.
A person with chickenpox should not travel by public transportation.
Bathe with ½ cup of baking soda in the bath water and apply calamine lotion on the blisters of chickenpox
Wash hands often, keep fingernails short and clean to help prevent infection caused by scratching.
Do not give aspirin or any products that aspirin or any products that contain aspirin or ASA to children under 18  years old who have chickenpox.
Aspirin can increase the risk of Reye’s Syndrome, which causes damage to the liver and brain, who have chickenpox.
If someone in house has chickenpox, do not try to keep them in a separate place in the house Separation is almost impossible to keep chickenpox from spreading to other people living in the house.
If you or your child develops chickenpox, please call your nearest Public Health Centre to report the illness.
Chickenpox is a notifiable disease under the Public Heath Act.
Chicken Pox can be extremely serious for, anyone with immune systems problems, pregnant women who have never had chickenpox, adults who have never had chickenpox.
If you are at risk and are in contact with someone who has chickenpox, call your family doctor or Community Health Nurse at your nearest Public Health Centre for further advice.
Immunization for chickenpox is now available for specific age groups and risk categories.
As one of those groups, nonimmune children in Grade 5  are offered the vaccine for chickenpox beginning in 2001 .
People who have close contact with children in places like daycares or schools are at higher risk for getting cold infection.
A person gets a cold when he comes in contact with the virus that causes it.
The virus of cold can be passed when infected people cough or sneeze the virus into the air, which is then breathed in by healthy people.
Cold virus is also passed when a healthy person touches a surface, such as a door knob, which was touched by an infected person and then touches his eyes or nose allowing the virus to enter the body.
A runny or stuffy nose (the most common symptom), a sore or scratchy throat, fever in a few cases and dry cough are the signs and symptoms of a cold.
Good health habits that are practiced every day are an important part of preventing the common cold.
Avoid contact with other people, who have cold whenever possible.
There is no specific treatment for the common cold but rest and drinking hot fluids can help ease the symptoms.
Fifth Disease is a fairly common childhood illness that most often occurs in the winter and spring.
Fifth Disease is usually a mild illness that is recognized by a body rash and bright red cheeks Fifth Disease is also known as “slappedcheek” syndrome.
Fifth Disease is most common among schoolaged children, but younger children and adults may also get the disease.
Most adults had Fifth Disease when they were children and will not get it again if they are in contact with an infected person.
Pregnant women and children with chronic anemia or immune system problems, such as leukemia, should contact their physicians if they are in contact with Fifth Disease.
The illness normally starts with a mild fever, headache and achiness for a few days, a red rash starts on the face that looks like a “slappedcheek” can be caused of a Fifth Disease.
One to four days later, a lacelike rash appears on the arms, legs and body, the rash comes and goes over the next one to three weeks and A child will usually feel better once the rash appears.
Adults with Fifth Disease are usually more ill than children and will often have a lot of joint pain. Joint pain may be severe enough to keep the adult in bed for several days.
Fifth Disease is spread the same way that the common cold is spread.
The virus of Fifth Disease is in the mucous and saliva of an infected person and is spread through the air when that person breathes, coughs or sneezes.
The virus can also be spread through contact with the mucous or saliva of a person who has Fifth Disease.
A person who has never had Fifth Disease may develop the disease 4  to 14  days after contact with an infected person.
 

